UNDER THE CLOAK.

UNDER THE CLOAK.

If there is a thing in the world that my soul hateth, it is a long
night journey by rail. In the old coaching days I do not think that
I should have minded it, passing swiftly through a summer night on
the top of a speedy coach with the star arch black-blue above one’s
head, the sweet smell of earth and her numberless flowers and grasses
in one’s nostrils, and the pleasant trot, trot, trot, trot, of the
four strong horses in one’s ears. But by railway! in a little stuffy
compartment, with nothing to amuse you if you keep awake; with a dim
lamp hanging above you, tantalizing you with the idea that you can
read by its light, and when you try, satisfactorily proving to you
that you cannot; and, if you sleep, breaking your neck, or at least
stiffening it, by the brutal arrangement of the hard cushions.

These thoughts pass sulkily and rebelliously through my head as I
sit in my salon, in the Ecu at Geneva, on the afternoon of the fine
autumn day on which, in an evil hour, I have settled to take my place
in the night train for Paris. I have put off going as long as I can.
I like Geneva, and am leaving some pleasant and congenial friends,
but now go I must. My husband is to meet me at the station in Paris
at six o’clock to-morrow morning. Six o’clock! what a barbarous hour
at which to arrive! I am putting on my bonnet and cloak; I look at
myself in the glass with an air of anticipative disgust. Yes, I look
trim and spruce enough now--a not disagreeable object perhaps--with
sleek hair, quick and alert eyes, and pink-tinted cheeks. Alas! at six
o’clock to-morrow morning, what a different tale there will be to tell!
dishevelled, dusty locks, half-open weary eyes, a disordered dress, and
a green-coloured countenance.

I turn away with a pettish gesture, and reflecting that at least there
is no wisdom in living my miseries twice over, I go downstairs, and get
into the hired open carriage which awaits me. My maid and man follow
with the luggage. I give stricter injunctions than ordinary to my maid
never for one moment to lose her hold of the dressing-case, which
contains, as it happens, a great many more valuable jewels than people
are wont to travel in foreign parts with, nor of a certain costly and
beautiful Dresden china and gold Louis Quatorze clock, which I am
carrying home as a present to my people. We reach the station, and I
straightway betake myself to the first-class Salle d’Attente, there to
remain penned up till the officials undo the gates of purgatory and
release us--an arrangement whose wisdom I have yet to learn. There are
ten minutes to spare, and the salle is filling fuller and fuller every
moment. Chiefly my countrymen, countrywomen, and country children,
beginning to troop home to their partridges. I look curiously round
at them, speculating as to which of them will be my companion or
companions through the night.

There are no very unusual types: girls in sailor hats and blonde
hair-fringes; strong-minded old maids in painstakingly ugly
waterproofs; baldish fathers; fattish mothers; a German or two,
with prominent pale eyes and spectacles. I have just decided on the
companions I should prefer; a large young man, who belongs to nobody,
and looks as if he spent most of his life in laughing--(Alas! he
is not likely! he is sure to want to smoke!)--and a handsome and
prosperous-looking young couple. They are more likely, as very
probably, in the man’s case, the bride-love will overcome the
cigar-love. The porter comes up. The key turns in the lock; the
doors open. At first I am standing close to them, flattening my
nose against the glass, and looking out on the pavement; but as the
passengers become more numerous, I withdraw from my prominent position,
anticipating a rush for carriages. I hate and dread exceedingly a
crowd, and would much prefer at any time to miss my train rather than
be squeezed and jostled by one. In consequence, my maid and I are
almost the last people to emerge, and have the last and worst choice
of seats. We run along the train looking in; the footman, my maid, and
I--full--full everywhere!

“Dames Seules?” asks the guard.

“Certainly not! neither ‘Dames Seules,’ nor ‘Fumeurs,’ but if it must
be one or the other, certainly ‘Fumeurs.’”

I am growing nervous, when I see the footman, who is a little ahead of
us, standing with an open carriage door in his hand, and signing to us
to make haste. Ah! it is all right! it always comes right when one does
not fuss oneself.

“Plenty of room here, ’m; only two gentlemen!”

I put my foot on the high step and climb in. Rather uncivil of the two
gentlemen! neither of them offers to help me, but they are not looking
this way I suppose. “Mind the dressing-case!” I cry nervously, as I
stretch out my hand to help the maid Watson up. The man pushes her from
behind; in she comes--dressing-case, clock and all; here we are for the
night!

I am so busy and amused looking out of the window, seeing the
different parties bidding their friends good-bye, and watching with
indignation the barbaric and malicious manner in which the porters
hurl the luckless luggage about, that we have steamed out of the
station, and are fairly off for Paris, before I have the curiosity to
glance at my fellow-passengers. Well! when I do take a look at them,
I do not make much of it. Watson and I occupy the two seats by one
window, facing one another. Our fellow travellers have not taken the
other two window seats; they occupy the middle ones, next us. They are
both reading behind newspapers. Well! we shall not get much amusement
out of them. I give them up as a bad job. Ah! if I could have had my
wish, and had the laughing young man, and the pretty young couple, for
company, the night would not perhaps have seemed so long. However I
should have been mortified for them to have seen how _green_ I looked
when the dawn came; and, as to these commis voyageurs, I do not care
if I look as green as grass in their eyes. Thus, all no doubt is for
the best; and at all events it is a good trite copy-book maxim to say
so. So I forget all about them: fix my eyes on the landscape racing
by, and fall into a variety of thoughts. “Will my husband really get
up in time to come and meet me at the station to-morrow morning? He
does so cordially hate getting up. My only chance is his not having
gone to bed at all! How will he be looking? I have not seen him for
four months. Will he have succeeded in curbing his tendency to fat,
during his Norway fishing? Probably not. Fishing, on the contrary,
is rather a _fat-making_ occupation; sluggish and sedentary. Shall
we have a pleasant party at the house we are going to, for shooting?
To whom in Paris shall I go for my gown? Worth? No, Worth is beyond
me.” Then I leave the future, and go back into past enjoyments;
excursions to Lausanne; trips down the lake to Chillon; a hundred and
one pleasantnesses. The time slips by: the afternoon is drawing towards
evening; a beginning of dusk is coming over the landscape.

I look round. Good Heavens! what can those men find so interesting in
the papers? I thought them hideously dull, when I looked over them
this morning; and yet they are still persistently reading. What can
they have got hold of? I cannot well see what the man beside me has;
vis-à-vis is buried in an English _Times_. Just as I am thinking
about him, he puts down his paper, and I see his face. Nothing very
remarkable! a long black beard, and a hat tilted somewhat low over
his forehead. I turn away my eyes hastily, for fear of being caught
inquisitively scanning him; but still, out of their corners I see that
he has taken a little bottle out of his travelling bag, has poured
some of its contents into a glass, and is putting it to his lips. It
appears as if--and, at the time it happens, I have no manner of doubt
that he is drinking. Then I feel that he is addressing me. I look up
and towards him: he is holding out the phial to me, and saying--

“May I take the liberty of offering Madame some?”

“No thank you, Monsieur!” I answer, shaking my head hastily and
speaking rather abruptly. There is nothing that I dislike more than
being offered strange eatables or drinkables in a train, or a strange
hymn book in church.

He smiles politely, and then adds--

“Perhaps the _other_ lady might be persuaded to take a little.”

“No thank you, sir, I’m much obliged to you,” replies Watson briskly,
in almost as ungrateful a tone as mine.

Again he smiles, bows, and re-buries himself in his newspaper. The
thread of my thoughts is broken, I feel an odd curiosity as to the
nature of the contents of that bottle. Certainly it is not sherry or
spirit of any kind, for it has diffused no odour through the carriage.
All this time the man beside me has said and done nothing. I wish he
would move or speak, or do something. I peep covertly at him. Well!
at all events, he is well defended against the night chill. What a
voluminous cloak he is wrapped in; how entirely it shrouds his figure;
trimmed with _fur_ too! why it might be January instead of September.
I do not know why, but that cloak makes me feel rather uncomfortable.
I wish they would both move to the window, instead of sitting next us.
Bah! am _I_ setting up to be a timid dove? I, who rather pique myself
on my bravery--on my indifference to tramps, bulls, ghosts? The clock
has been deposited with the umbrellas, parasols, spare shawls, rugs,
etc., in the netting above Watson’s head. The dressing-case--a very
large and heavy one--is sitting on her lap. I lean forwards and say to
her--

“That box must rest very heavily on your knee, and I want a
footstool--I should be more comfortable if I had one--let me put my
feet on it.”

I have an idea that, somehow, my sapphires will be safer if I have them
where I can always feel that they are _there_. We make the desired
change in our arrangements. Yes! both my feet are on it.

The landscape outside is darkening quickly now; our dim lamp is
beginning to assert its importance. Still the men read. I feel a
sensation of irritation. What can they mean by it? it is utterly
impossible that they can decipher the small print of the _Times_, by
this feeble shaky glimmer.

As I am so thinking, the one who had before spoken lays down his
paper, folds it up and deposits it on the seat beside him. Then,
drawing his little bottle out of his bag a second time, drinks, or
seems to drink, from it. Then he again turns to me--

“Madame will pardon me, but if Madame _could_ be induced to try a
little of this; it is a cordial of a most refreshing and invigorating
description; and if she will have the amiability to allow me to say so,
Madame looks faint.”

(What _can_ he mean by his urgency? _Is_ it pure politeness? I wish
it were not growing so dark.) These thoughts run through my head as I
hesitate for an instant what answer to make. Then an idea occurs to
me, and I manufacture a civil smile and say, “Thank you very much,
Monsieur! I am a little faint, as you observe. I think I will avail
myself of your obliging offer.” So saying, I take the glass, and touch
it with my lips. I give you my word of honour that I do not think I
did more; I did not mean to swallow a drop, but I suppose I must have
done. He smiles with a gratified air.

“The other lady will now, perhaps, follow your example?”

By this time I am beginning to feel thoroughly uncomfortable: _why_,
I should be puzzled to explain. What _is_ this cordial that he is so
eager to urge upon us? Though determined not to subject _myself_ to
its influence, I _must_ see its effect upon another person. Rather
brutal of me, perhaps; rather in the spirit of the anatomist, who, in
the interest of science, tortures live dogs and cats; but I am telling
you _facts_--not what I ought to have done, but what I _did_. I make
a sign to Watson to drink some. She obeys, nothing loath. She has
been working hard all day; packing and getting under weigh, and she
is tired. There is no feigning about her! She has emptied the glass.
Now to see what comes of it--what happens to my live dog! The bottle
is replaced in the bag; still we are racing, racing on, past the hills
and fields and villages. How indistinct they are all growing! I turn
back from the contemplation of the outside view to the inside one. Why,
the woman is asleep already! her chin buried in her chest; her mouth
half open; looking exceedingly imbecile and very plain, as most people,
when asleep out of bed, do look. A nice invigorating potion, indeed! I
wish to Heaven that I had gone in Fumeurs, or even with that cavalcade
of nursery-maids and unwholesome-looking babies in Dames Seules, next
door. At all events, I am not at all sleepy myself: that is a blessing.
I shall see what happens. Yes, by-the-by, I must see what he meant
to happen: I must affect to fall asleep too. I close my eyes, and
gradually sinking my chin on my chest, try to droop my jaws and hang
my cheeks, with a semblance of bonâ-fide slumber. Apparently I succeed
pretty well. After the lapse of some minutes, I distinctly feel two
hands very cautiously and carefully lifting and removing my feet from
the dressing-box.

A cold chill creeps over me, and then the blood rushes to my head and
ears. What am I to do? what am I to do? I have always thought the
better of myself ever since for it; but, strange to say, I keep my
presence of mind. Still affecting to sleep, I give a sort of kick,
and instantly the hands are withdrawn and all is perfectly quiet
again. I now feign to wake gradually, with a yawn and a stretch;
and, on moving about my feet a little, find that, despite my kick,
they have been too clever for me, and have dexterously removed my
box and substituted another. The way in which I make this pleasant
discovery is that, whereas mine was perfectly flat at the top, on the
surface of the object that is now beneath my feet there is some sort
of excrescence--a handle of some sort or other. There is no denying
it--brave I _may_ be--I may laugh at people for running from bulls; for
disliking to sleep in a room by themselves, for fear of ghosts; for
hurrying past tramps: but now I am most thoroughly frightened. I look
cautiously, in a sideways manner, at the man beside me. How very still
he is! Were they _his_ hands, or the hands of the man opposite him? I
take a fuller look than I have yet ventured to do; turning slightly
round for the purpose. He is still reading, or at least still holding
the paper, for the reading must be a farce. I look at his hands: they
are in precisely the same position as they were when I affected to
go to sleep, although the pose of the rest of his body is slightly
altered. Suddenly, I turn extremely cold, for it has dawned on me that
they are not real hands--they are certainly false ones. Yes, though the
carriage is shaking very much with our rapid motion, and the light is
shaking, too, yet there is no mistake. I look indeed more closely, so
as to be quite sure. The one nearest me is ungloved; the other gloved.
I look at the nearest one. Yes, it is of an opaque waxen whiteness. I
can plainly see the rouge put under the finger-nails to represent the
colouring of life. I try to give one glance at his face. The paper
still partially hides it; and as he is leaning his head back against
the cushion, where the light hardly penetrates, I am completely baffled
in my efforts.

Great Heavens! what is going to happen to me? what shall I do? how much
of him is _real_? where are his _real_ hands? what is going on under
that awful cloak? The fur border touches me as I sit by him. I draw
convulsively and shrinkingly away, and try to squeeze myself up as
close as possible to the window. But alas! to what good? how absolutely
and utterly powerless I am! how entirely at their mercy! And there is
Watson still sleeping swinishly! breathing heavily opposite me. Shall
I try to wake her? But to what end? She, being under the influence of
that vile drug, my efforts will certainly be useless, and will probably
arouse the man to employ violence against me. Sooner or later in the
course of the night I suppose they are pretty sure to murder me, but I
had rather that it should be later than sooner.

While I think these things, I am lying back quite still, for, as I
philosophically reflect, not all the screaming in the world will help
me: if I had twenty-lung power I could not drown the rush of an express
train. Oh, if my dear boy were but here,--my husband I mean,--fat
or lean, how thankful I should be to see him! Oh, that cloak, and
those horrid waxy hands! Of course I see it now! They remained stuck
out, while the man’s real ones were fumbling about my feet. In the
midst of my agony of fright, a thought of Madame Tussaud flashes
ludicrously across me. Then they begin to talk of me. It is plain that
they are not taken in by my feint of sleep: they speak in a clear,
loud voice, evidently for my benefit. One of them begins by saying,
“What a good-looking woman she is--evidently in her première jeunesse
too”--(Reader, I struck thirty last May)--“and also there can be no
doubt as to her being of exalted rank--a duchess probably.”--(A dead
duchess by morning, think I grimly). They go on to say how odd it is
that people in my class of life never travel with their own jewels,
but always with paste ones, the real ones being meanwhile deposited
at the bankers. My poor, poor sapphires! good-bye--a long good-bye to
you. But indeed I will willingly compound for the loss of you and the
rest of my ornaments--will go bare-necked, and bare-armed, or clad in
Salviati beads for the rest of my life, so that I do but attain the
next stopping place alive.

As I am so thinking, one of the men looks, or I imagine that he looks,
rather curiously towards me. In a paroxysm of fear lest they should
read on my face the signs of the agony of terror I am enduring, I throw
my pocket handkerchief--a very fine cambric one--over my face.

And now, oh reader, I am going to tell you something which I am sure
you will not believe; I can hardly believe it myself, but, as I so lie,
despite the tumult of my mind--despite the chilly terror which seems
to be numbing my feelings--in the midst of it all a drowsiness keeps
stealing over me. I am now convinced either that vile potion must have
been of extraordinary strength, or that I, through the shaking of the
carriage, or the unsteadiness of my hand, carried more to my mouth,
and swallowed more--I did not _mean_ to swallow any--than I intended,
for--you will hardly credit it, but--I _fell asleep_!

       *       *       *       *       *

When I awake,--awake with a bewildered mixed sense of having been
a long time asleep,--of not knowing where I am--and of having some
great dread and horror on my mind--awake and look round, the dawn
is breaking. I shiver, with the chilly sensation that the coming of
even a warm day brings, and look round, still half unconsciously,
in a misty way. But what has happened? how empty the carriage is!
the dressing-case is gone! the clock is gone! the man who sat nearly
opposite me is gone! _Watson is gone!_ but the man in the cloak and
the wax hands still sits beside me! Still the hands are holding the
paper; still the fur is touching me! Good God! I am tête-à-tête with
him! A feeling of the most appalling desolation and despair comes over
me--vanquishes me utterly. I clasp my hands together frantically,
and, still looking at the dim form beside me, groan out--“Well! I did
not think that Watson would have forsaken me!” Instantly, a sort of
movement and shiver runs through the figure: the newspaper drops from
the hands, which however continue to be still held out in the same
position as if still grasping it; and behind the newspaper, I see by
the dim morning light and the dim lamp-gleams that there is no real
face but a mask. A sort of choked sound is coming from behind the mask.
Shivers of cold fear are running over me. Never to this day shall I
know what gave me the despairing courage to do it, but before I know
what I am doing, I find myself tearing at the cloak,--tearing away the
mask--tearing away the hands. It would be better to find _anything_
underneath--Satan himself,--a horrible dead body--anything--sooner than
submit any longer to this hideous mystery. And I am rewarded. When the
cloak lies at the bottom of the carriage--when the mask, and the false
hands and false feet--(there are false _feet_ too)--are also cast away,
in different directions, what do you think I find underneath?

Watson! Yes: it appears that while I slept--I feel sure that they must
have rubbed some more of the drug on my lips while I was unconscious,
or I never could have slept so heavily or so long--they dressed up
Watson in the mask, feet, hands, and cloak; set the hat on her head,
gagged her, and placed her beside me in the attitude occupied by the
man. They had then, at the next station, got out, taking with them
dressing-case and clock, and had made off in all security. When I
arrive in Paris, you will not be surprised to hear that it does not
once occur to me whether I am looking green or no.

And this is the true history of my night journey to Paris! You will
be glad, I daresay, to learn that I ultimately recovered my sapphires,
and a good many of my other ornaments. The police being promptly set
on, the robbers were, after much trouble and time, at length secured;
and it turned out that the man in the cloak was an ex-valet of my
husband’s, who was acquainted with my bad habit of travelling in
company with my trinkets--a bad habit which I have since seen fit to
abandon.

       *       *       *       *       *

What I have written is literally true, though it did not happen to
myself.

THE END.

BILLING, PRINTER, GUILDFORD, SURREY.

TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:

  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

  Archaic or variant spelling has been retained.

  An incorrect page number in the Table of Contents has been corrected.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TALES FOR CHRISTMAS EVE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks ma
