POOR PRETTY BOBBY.

POOR PRETTY BOBBY.

CHAPTER I.

“Yes, my dear, you may not believe me, but I can assure you that
you cannot dislike old women more, nor think them more contemptible
supernumeraries, than I did when I was your age.”

This is what old Mrs. Wentworth says--the old lady so incredibly
tenacious of life (incredibly as it seems to me at eighteen) as to have
buried a husband and five strong sons, and yet still to eat her dinner
with hearty relish, and laugh at any such jokes as are spoken loudly
enough to reach her dulled ears. This is what she says, shaking the
while her head, which--poor old soul--is already shaking a good deal
involuntarily. I am sitting close beside her arm-chair, and have been
reading aloud to her; but as I cannot succeed in pitching my voice so
as to make her hear satisfactorily, by mutual consent the book has been
dropped in my lap, and we have betaken ourselves to conversation.

“I never said I disliked old women, did I?” reply I evasively, being
too truthful altogether to deny the soft impeachment. “What makes you
think I do? They are infinitely preferable to old men; I do distinctly
dislike _them_.”

“A fat, bald, deaf old woman,” continues she, not heeding me, and
speaking with slow emphasis, while she raises one trembling hand to
mark each unpleasant adjective; “if in the year ’2 any one had told me
that I should have lived to be that, I think I should have killed them
or myself! and yet now I am all three.”

“You are not _very_ deaf,” say I politely--(the fatness and baldness
admit of no civilities consistent with veracity)--but I raise my voice
to pay the compliment.

“In the year ’2 I was seventeen,” she says, wandering off into memory.
“Yes, my dear, I am just fifteen years older than the century and _it_
is getting into its dotage, is not it? The year ’2--ah! I that was just
about the time that I first saw my poor Bobby! Poor pretty Bobby.”

“And who _was_ Bobby?” ask I, pricking up my ears, and scenting, with
the keen nose of youth, a dead-love idyll; an idyll of which this poor
old hill of unsteady flesh was the heroine.

“I must have told you the tale a hundred times, have not I?” she asks,
turning her old dim eyes towards me. “A curious tale, say what you
will, and explain it how you will. I think I _must_ have told you; but
indeed I forgot to whom I tell my old stories and to whom I do not.
Well, my love, you must promise to stop me if you have heard it before,
but to me, you know, these old things are so much clearer than the
things of yesterday.”

“You never told me, Mrs. Hamilton,” I say, and say truthfully; for
being a new acquaintance I really have not been made acquainted with
Bobby’s history. “Would you mind telling it me now, if you are sure
that it would not bore you?”

“Bobby,” she repeats softly to herself, “Bobby. I daresay you do not
think it a very pretty name?”

“N--not particularly,” reply I honestly. “To tell you the truth, it
rather reminds me of a policeman.”

“I daresay,” she answers quietly; “and yet in the year ’2 I grew to
think it the handsomest, dearest name on earth. Well, if you like, I
will begin at the beginning and tell you how that came about.”

“Do,” say I, drawing a stocking out of my pocket, and thriftily
beginning to knit to assist me in the process of listening.

“In the year ’2 we were at war with France--you know that, of course.
It seemed then as if war were our normal state; I could hardly remember
a time when Europe had been at peace. In these days of stagnant quiet
it appears as if people’s kith and kin always lived out their full time
and died in their beds. _Then_ there was hardly a house where there was
not one dead, either in battle, or of his wounds after battle, or of
some dysentery or ugly parching fever. As for us, we had always been
a soldier family--always; there was not one of us that had ever worn
a black gown or sat upon a high stool with a pen behind his ear. I
had lost uncles and cousins by the half-dozen and dozen, but, for my
part, I did not much mind, as I knew very little about them, and black
was more becoming wear to a person with my bright colour than anything
else.”

At the mention of her bright colour I unintentionally lift my eyes from
my knitting, and contemplate the yellow bagginess of the poor old cheek
nearest me. Oh, Time! Time! what absurd and dirty turns you play us!
What do you do with all our fair and goodly things when you have stolen
them from us? In what far and hidden treasure-house do you store them?

“But I did care very much--very exceedingly--for my dear old
father--not so old either--younger than my eldest boy was when he went;
he would have been forty-two if he had lived three days longer. Well,
well, child, you must not let me wander; you must keep me to it. He was
not a soldier, was not my father; he was a sailor, a post-captain in
his Majesty’s navy and commanded the ship _Thunderer_ in the Channel
fleet.

“I had struck seventeen in the year ’2, as I said before, and had
just come home from being finished at a boarding-school of repute in
those days, where I had learnt to talk the prettiest _ancien régime_
French and to hate Bonaparte with unchristian violence from a little
ruined _émigre maréchale_; had also, with infinite expenditure of
time, labour, and Berlin wool, wrought out ‘Abraham’s Sacrifice of
Isaac’ and ‘Jacob’s First Kiss to Rachel,’ in finest cross-stitch. Now
I had bidden adieu to learning; had inly resolved never to disinter
‘Télémaque’ and Thompson’s ‘Seasons’ from the bottom of my trunk; had
taken a holiday from all my accomplishments with the exception of
cross-stitch, to which I still faithfully adhered--and indeed, on the
day I am going to mention, I recollect that I was hard at work on Judas
Iscariot’s face in Leonardo da Vinci’s ‘Last Supper’--hard at work at
it, sitting in the morning sunshine, on a straight-backed chair. We
had flatter backs in those days; our shoulders were not made round by
lolling in easy-chairs; indeed, no _then_ upholsterer made a chair that
it was possible to loll in. My father rented a house near Plymouth at
that time, an in-and-out _nooky_ kind of old house--no doubt it has
fallen to pieces long years ago--a house all set round with unnumbered
flowers, and about which the rooks clamoured all together from the
windy elm tops. I was labouring in flesh-coloured wool on Judas’s left
cheek, when the door opened and my mother entered. She looked as if
something had freshly pleased her, and her eyes were smiling. In her
hand she held an open and evidently just-read letter.

“‘A messenger has come from Plymouth,’ she says, advancing quickly and
joyfully towards me. ‘Your father will be here this afternoon.’

“‘_This afternoon!_’ cry I, at the top of my voice, pushing away my
heavy work-frame. ‘How delightful! But how?--how can that happen?’

“‘They have had a brush with a French privateer,’ she answers, sitting
down on another straight-backed chair, and looking again over the large
square letter, destitute of envelope, for such things were not in those
days, ‘and then they succeeded in taking her. Yet they were a good deal
knocked about in the process, and have had to put into Plymouth to
refit, so he will be here this afternoon for a few hours.’

“‘Hurrah!’ cry I, rising, holding out my scanty skirts, and beginning
to dance.

“‘Bobby Gerard is coming with him,’ continues my mother, again glancing
at her despatch. ‘Poor boy, he has had a shot through his right arm,
which has broken the bone, so your father is bringing him here for us
to nurse him well again.’

“I stop in my dancing.

“‘Hurrah again!’ I say brutally. ‘I do not mean about his arm; of
course I am very sorry for that; but at all events, I shall see him at
last. I shall see whether he is like his picture, and whether it is not
as egregiously flattered as I have always suspected.’

“There were no photographs you know in those days--not even hazy
daguerreotypes--it was fifty good years too soon for them. The picture
to which I allude is a miniature, at which I had stolen many a deeply
longingly admiring glance in its velvet case. It is almost impossible
for a miniature not to flatter. To the most coarse-skinned and
mealy-potato-faced people it cannot help giving cheeks of the texture
of a rose-leaf and brows of the grain of finest marble.

“‘Yes,’ replies my mother, absently, ‘so you will. Well, I must be
going to give orders about his room. He would like one looking on the
garden best, do not you think, Phœbe?--one where he could smell the
flowers and hear the birds?’

“Mother goes, and I fall into a meditation. Bobby Gerard is an orphan.
A few years ago his mother, who was an old friend of my father’s--who
knows! perhaps an old love--feeling her end drawing nigh, had sent for
father, and had asked him, with eager dying tears, to take as much care
of her pretty forlorn boy as he could, and to shield him a little in
his tender years from the evils of this wicked world, and to be to him
a wise and kindly guardian, in the place of those natural ones that
God had taken. And father had promised, and when he promised there was
small fear of his not keeping his word.

“This was some years ago, and yet I had never seen him nor he me;
he had been almost always at sea and I at school. I had heard plenty
about him--about his sayings, his waggeries, his mischievousness, his
soft-heartedness, and his great and unusual comeliness; but his outward
man, save as represented in that stealthily peeped-at miniature,
had I never seen. They were to arrive in the afternoon; but long
before the hour at which they were due I was waiting with expectant
impatience to receive them. I had changed my dress, and had (though
rather ashamed of myself) put on everything of most becoming that my
wardrobe afforded. If you were to see me as I stood before the glass on
that summer afternoon you would not be able to contain your laughter;
the little boys in the street would run after me throwing stones and
hooting; but _then_--according to the _then_ fashion and standard of
gentility--I was all that was most elegant and _comme il faut_. Lately
it has been the mode to puff oneself out with unnatural and improbable
protuberances; _then_ one’s great life-object was to make oneself
appear as scrimping as possible--to make oneself look as flat as if
one had been ironed. Many people _damped_ their clothes to make them
stick more closely to them, and to make them define more distinctly
the outline of form and limbs. One’s waist was under one’s arm’s; the
sole object of which seemed to be to outrage nature by pushing one’s
bust up into one’s chin, and one’s legs were revealed through one’s
scanty drapery with startling candour as one walked or sat. I remember
once standing with my back to a bright fire in our long drawing-room,
and seeing myself reflected in a big mirror at the other end. I was so
thinly clad that I was transparent, and could see through myself. Well,
in the afternoon in question I was dressed quite an hour and a half
too soon. I had a narrow little white gown, which clung successfully
tight and close to my figure, and which was of so moderate a length as
to leave visible my ankles and my neatly-shod and cross-sandled feet.
I had long mittens on my arms, black, and embroidered on the backs in
coloured silks; and above my hair, which at the back was scratched
up to the top of my crown, towered a tremendous tortoise-shell comb;
while on each side of my face modestly drooped a bunch of curls, nearly
meeting over my nose.

“My figure was full--ah! my dear, I have always had a tendency to fat,
and you see what it has come to--and my pink cheeks were more deeply
brightly rosy than usual. I had looked out at every upper window, so as
to have the furthest possible view of the road.

“I had walked in my thin shoes half way down the drive, so as to
command a turn, which, from the house, impeded my vision, when, at
last, after many tantalising false alarms, and just five minutes later
than the time mentioned in the letter, the high-swung, yellow-bodied,
post-chaise hove in sight, dragged--briskly jingling--along by a pair
of galloping horses. Then, suddenly, shyness overcame me--much as I
loved my father, it was more as my personification of all knightly and
noble qualities than from much personal acquaintance with him--and I
fled.

“I remained in my room until I thought I had given them ample time to
get through the first greetings and settle down into quiet talk. Then,
having for one last time run my fingers through each ringlet of my two
curl bunches, I stole diffidently downstairs.

“There was a noise of loud and gay voices issuing from the parlour,
but, as I entered, they all stopped talking and turned to look at me.

“‘And so this is Phœbe!’ cries my father’s jovial voice, as he comes
towards me, and heartily kisses me. ‘Good Lord, how time flies! It
does not seem more than three months since I saw the child, and yet
then she was a bit of a brat in trousers, and long bare legs!’

“At this allusion to my late mode of attire, I laugh, but I also feel
myself growing scarlet.

“‘Here, Bobby!’ continues my father, taking me by the hand, and leading
me towards a sofa on which a young man is sitting beside my mother;
‘this is my little lass that you have so often heard of. Not such a
very little one, after all, is she? Do not be shy, my boy; you will not
see such a pretty girl every day of your life--give her a kiss.’

“My eyes are on the ground, but I am aware that the young man rises,
advances (not unwillingly, as it seems to me), and bestows a kiss,
somewhere or other on my face. I am not quite clear _where_, as I think
the curls impede him a good deal.

“Thus, before ever I saw Bobby, before ever I knew what manner of man
he was, I was kissed by him. That was a good beginning, was not it?

“After these salutations are over, we subside again into
conversation--I sitting beside my father, with his arm round my waist,
sitting modestly silent, and peeping every now and then under my eyes,
as often as I think I may do so safely unobserved, at the young fellow
opposite me. I am instituting an inward comparison between Nature and
Art: between the real live man and the miniature that undertakes to
represent him. The first result of this inspection is disappointment,
for where are the lovely smooth roses and lilies that I have been wont
to connect with Bobby Gerard’s name? There are no roses in his cheek,
certainly; they are paleish--from his wound, as I conjecture; but even
before that accident, if there were roses at all, they must have been
mahogany-coloured ones, for the salt sea winds and the high summer sun
have tanned his fair face to a rich reddish, brownish, copperish hue.
But in some things the picture lied not. There is the brow more broad
than high; the straight fine nose; the brave and joyful blue eyes, and
the mouth with its pretty curling smile. On the whole, perhaps, I am
not disappointed.

“By-and-by father rises, and steps out into the verandah, where the
canary birds hung out in their cages are noisily praising God after
their manner. Mother follows him. I should like to do the same; but a
sense of good manners, and a conjecture that possibly my parents may
have some subjects to discuss, on which they would prefer to be without
the help of my advice, restrain me. I therefore remain, and so does the
invalid.

CHAPTER II.

“For some moments the silence threatens to remain unbroken between us;
for some moments the subdued sound of father’s and mother’s talk from
among the rosebeds and the piercing clamour of the canaries--fish-wives
among birds--are the only noises that salute our ears. Noise we make
none ourselves. My eyes are reading the muddled pattern of the Turkey
carpet; I do not know what his are doing. Small knowledge have I had of
men saving the dancing-master at our school; a beautiful new youth is
almost as great a novelty to me as to Miranda, and I am a good deal
gawkier than she was under the new experience. I think he must have
made a vow that he would not speak first. I feel myself swelling to
double my normal size with confusion and heat; at last, in desperation,
I look up, and say sententiously, ‘You have been wounded, I believe?’

“‘Yes, I have.’

“He might have helped me by answering more at large, might not he? But
now that I am having a good look at him, I see that he is rather red
too. Perhaps he also feels gawky and swollen; the idea encourages me.

“‘Did it hurt very badly?’

“‘N--not so very much.’

“‘I should have thought that you ought to have been in bed,’ say I,
with a motherly air of solicitude.

“‘Should you, why?’

“‘I thought that when people broke their limbs they had to stay in bed
till they were mended again.’

“‘But mine was broken a week ago,’ he answers, smiling and showing his
straight white teeth--ah, the miniature was silent about _them_! ‘You
would not have had me stay in bed a whole week like an old woman?’

“‘I expected to have seen you much _iller_,’ say I, beginning to feel
more at my ease, and with a sensible diminution of that unpleasant
swelling sensation. ‘Father said in his note that we were to nurse you
well again; that sounded as if you were _quite_ ill.’

“‘Your father always takes a great deal too much care of me,’ he says,
with a slight frown and darkening of his whole bright face. ‘I might be
sugar or salt.’

“‘And very kind of him, too,’ I cry, firing up. ‘What motive beside
your own good can he have for looking after you? I call you rather
ungrateful.’

“‘Do you?’ he says calmly, and without apparent resentment. ‘But you
are mistaken. I am not ungrateful. However, naturally, you do not
understand.’

“‘Oh, indeed!’ reply I, speaking rather shortly, and feeling a little
offended, ‘I daresay not.’

“Our talk is taking a somewhat hostile tone; to what further amenities
we might have proceeded is unknown; for at this point father and mother
reappear through the window, and the necessity of conversing with each
other at all ceases.

“Father staid till evening, and we all supped together, and I was
called upon to sit by Bobby, and cut up his food for him, as he was
disabled from doing it for himself. Then, later still, when the sun
had set, and all his evening reds and purples had followed him, when
the night flowers were scenting all the garden, and the shadows lay
about, enormously long in the summer moonlight, father got into the
post-chaise again, and drove away through the black shadows and the
faint clear shine, and Bobby stood at the hall-door watching him, with
his arm in a sling and a wistful smile on lips and eyes.

“‘Well, we are not left _quite_ desolate this time,’ says mother,
turning with rather tearful laughter to the young man. ‘You wish that
we were, do not you, Bobby?’

“‘You would not believe me, if I answered “No,” would you?’ he asks,
with the same still smile.

“‘He is not very polite to us, is he, Phœbe?’

“‘You would not wish me to be polite in such a case,’ he replies,
flushing. ‘You would not wish me to be _glad_ at missing the chance of
seeing any of the fun?’

“But Mr. Gerard’s eagerness to be back at his post delays the
probability of his being able to return thither. The next day he has
a feverish attack, the day after he is worse; the day after that worse
still, and in fine, it is between a fortnight and three weeks before
he also is able to get into a post-chaise and drive away to Plymouth.
And meanwhile mother and I nurse him and cosset him, and make him odd
and cool drinks out of herbs and field-flowers, whose uses are now
disdained or forgotten. I do not mean any offence to you, my dear,
but I think that young girls in those days were less squeamish and
more truly delicate than they are nowadays. I remember once I read
‘Humphrey Clinker’ aloud to my father, and we both highly relished and
laughed over its jokes; but I should not have understood one of the
darkly unclean allusions in that French book your brother left here
one day. _You_ would think it very unseemly to enter the bedroom of a
strange young man, sick or well; but as for me, I spent whole nights
in Bobby’s, watching him and tending him with as little false shame
as if he had been my brother. I can hear _now_, more plainly than the
song you sang me an hour ago, the slumberous buzzing of the great
brown-coated summer bees in his still room, as I sat by his bedside
watching his sleeping face, as he dreamt unquietly, and clenched,
and again unclenched, his nervous hands. I think he was back in the
_Thunderer_. I can see _now_ the little close curls of his sunshiny
hair straggling over the white pillow. And then there came a good and
blessed day, when he was out of danger, and then another, a little
further on, when he was up and dressed, and he and I walked forth into
the hayfield beyond the garden--reversing the order of things--_he_,
leaning on _my_ arm; and a good plump solid arm it was. We walked
out under the heavy-leaved horse-chestnut trees, and the old and
rough-barked elms. The sun was shining all this time, as it seems to
me. I do not believe that in those old days there were the same cold
unseasonable rains as now; there were soft showers enough to keep the
grass green and the flowers undrooped; but I have no association of
overcast skies and untimely deluges with those long and azure days.
We sat under a haycock, on the shady side, and indolently watched the
hot haymakers--the shirt-sleeved men, and burnt and bare-armed women,
tossing and raking; while we breathed the blessed country air, full
of adorable scents, and crowded with little happy and pretty-winged
insects.

“‘In three days,’ says Bobby, leaning his elbow in the hay, and
speaking with an eager smile, ‘three days at the furthest, I may go
back again; may not I, Phœbe?’

“‘Without doubt,’ reply I, stiffly, pulling a dry and faded ox-eye
flower out of the odorous mound beside me; ‘for my part, I do not see
why you should not go to-morrow, or indeed--if we could send into
Plymouth for a chaise--this afternoon; you are so thin that you look
all mouth and eyes, and you can hardly stand, without assistance, but
these, of course, are trifling drawbacks, and I daresay would be rather
an advantage on board ship than otherwise.’

“‘You are angry!’ he says, with a sort of laugh in his deep eyes. ‘You
look even prettier when you are angry than when you are pleased.’

“‘It is no question of my looks,’ I say, still in some heat, though
mollified by the irrelevant compliment.

“‘For the second time you are thinking me ungrateful,’ he says,
gravely; ‘you do not tell me so in so many words, because it is towards
yourself that my ingratitude is shown; the first time you told me of it
it was almost the first thing that you ever said to me.’

“‘So it was,’ I answer quickly; ‘and if the occasion were to come over
again, I should say it again. I daresay you did not mean it, but it
sounded exactly as if you were complaining of my father for being too
careful of you.’

“‘He _is_ too careful of me!’ cries the young man, with a hot flushing
of cheek and brow. ‘I cannot help it if it make you angry again; I
_must_ say it, he is more careful of me than he would be of his own
son, if he had one.’

“‘Did not he promise your mother that he would look after you?’ ask I
eagerly. ‘When people make promises to people on their death-beds they
are in no hurry to break them; at least, such people as father are not.’

“‘You do not understand,’ he says, a little impatiently, while that hot
flush still dwells on his pale cheek; ‘my mother was the last person
in the world to wish him to take care of my body at the expense of my
honour.’

“‘What are you talking about?’ I say, looking at him with a lurking
suspicion that, despite the steady light of reason in his blue eyes, he
is still labouring under some form of delirium.

“‘Unless I tell you all my grievance, I see that you will never
comprehend,’ he says sighing. ‘Well, listen to me and you shall hear
it, and if you do not agree with me, when I have done, you are not the
kind of girl I take you for.’

“‘Then I am sure I am not the kind of girl you take me for,’ reply I,
with a laugh; ‘for I am fully determined to disagree with you entirely.’

“‘You know,’ he says, raising himself a little from his hay couch and
speaking with clear rapidity, ‘that whenever we take a French prize a
lot of the French sailors are ironed, and the vessel is sent into port,
in the charge of one officer and several men; there is some slight
risk attending it--for my part, I think _very_ slight--but I suppose
that your father looks at it differently, for--_I have never been
sent_.’

“‘It is accident,’ say I, reassuringly; ‘your turn will come in good
time.’

“‘It is _not_ accident!’ he answers, firmly. ‘Boys younger than I
am--much less trustworthy, and of whom he has not half the opinion
that he has of me--have been sent, but _I_, _never_. I bore it as well
as I could for a long time, but now I can bear it no longer; it is
not, I assure you, my fancy; but I can see that my brother officers,
knowing how partial your father is to me--what influence I have with
him in many things--conclude that my not being sent is my own choice;
in short, that I am--_afraid_.’ (His voice sinks with a disgusted and
shamed intonation at the last word.) ‘Now--I have told you the sober
facts--look me in the face’ (putting his hand with boyish familiarity
under my chin, and turning round my curls, my features, and the front
view of my big comb towards him), ‘and tell me whether you agree with
me, as I said you would, or not--whether it is not cruel kindness on
his part to make me keep a whole skin on such terms?’

“I look him in the face for a moment, trying to say that I do not agree
with him, but it is more than I can manage. ‘You were right,’ I say,
turning my head away, ‘I _do_ agree with you; I wish to heaven that I
could honestly say that I did not.’

“‘Since you do then,’ he cries excitedly--‘Phœbe! I knew you would, I
knew you better than you knew yourself--I have a favour to ask of you,
a _great_ favour, and one that will keep me all my life in debt to you.’

“‘What is it?’ ask I, with a sinking heart.

“‘Your father is very fond of you----’

“‘I know it,’ I answer curtly.

“‘Anything that you asked, and that was within the bounds of
possibility, he would do,’ he continues, with eager gravity. ‘Well,
this is what I ask of you: to write him a line, and let me take it,
when I go, asking him to send me home in the next prize.’

“Silence for a moment, only the haymakers laughing over their rakes.
‘And if,’ say I, with a trembling voice, ‘you lose your life in this
service, you will have to thank me for it; I shall have your death on
my head all through my life.’

“‘The danger is infinitesimal, as I told you before,’ he says,
impatiently; ‘and even if it were greater than it is--well, life is
a good thing, very good, but there are better things, and even if I
come to grief, which is most unlikely, there are plenty of men as good
as--better than--I, to step into my place.’

“‘It will be small consolation to the people who are fond of you that
some one better than you is alive, though you are dead,’ I say,
tearfully.

“‘But I do not mean to be dead,’ he says, with a cheery laugh. ‘Why are
you so determined on killing me? I mean to live to be an admiral. Why
should not I?’

“‘Why indeed?’ say I, with a feeble echo of his cheerful mirth, and
feeling rather ashamed of my tears.

“‘And meanwhile you will write?’ he says with an eager return to the
charge; ‘and _soon?_ Do not look angry and pouting, as you did just
now, but I _must_ go! What is there to hinder me? I am getting up my
strength as fast as it is possible for any human creature to do, and
just think how I should feel if they were to come in for something
really good while I am away.’

“So I wrote.

CHAPTER III.

“I often wished afterwards that my right hand had been cut off before
its fingers had held the pen that wrote that letter. You wonder to
see me moved at what happened so long ago--before your parents were
born--and certainly it makes not much difference now; for even if he
had prospered then, and come happily home to me, yet, in the course
of nature he would have gone long before now. I should not have been
so cruel as to have wished him to have lasted to be as I am. I did
not mean to hint at the end of my story before I have reached the
middle. Well--and so he went, with the letter in his pocket, and I
felt something like the king in the tale, who sent a messenger with a
letter, and wrote in the letter, ‘Slay the bearer of this as soon as
he arrives!’ But before he went--the evening before, as we walked in
the garden after supper, with our monstrously long shadows stretching
before us in the moonlight--I do not think he said in so many words,
‘Will you marry me?’ but somehow, by some signs or words on both our
parts, it became clear to us that, by-and-by, if God left him alive,
and if the war ever came to an end, he and I should belong to one
another. And so, having understood this, when he went he kissed me, as
he had done when he came, only this time no one bade him; he did it of
his own accord, and a hundred times instead of one; and for my part,
this time, instead of standing passive like a log or a post, I kissed
him back again, most lovingly, with many tears.

“Ah! parting in those days, when the last kiss to one’s beloved ones
was not unlikely to be an adieu until the great Day of Judgment, was
a different thing to the listless, unemotional good-byes of these
stagnant times of peace!

“And so Bobby also got into a post-chaise and drove away, and we
watched him too, till he turned the corner out of our sight, as we had
watched father; and then I hid my face among the jessamine flowers
that clothed the wall of the house, and wept as one that would not be
comforted. However, one cannot weep for ever, or, if one does, it makes
one blind and blear, and I did not wish Bobby to have a wife with such
defects; so in process of time I dried my tears.

“And the days passed by, and nature went slowly and evenly through her
lovely changes. The hay was gathered in, and the fine new grass and
clover sprang up among the stalks of the grass that had gone; and the
wild roses struggled into odorous bloom, and crowned the hedges, and
then _their_ time came, and they shook down their faint petals, and
went.

“And now the corn harvest had come, and we had heard once or twice from
our beloveds, but not often. And the sun still shone with broad power,
and kept the rain in subjection. And all morning I sat at my big frame,
and toiled on at the ‘Last Supper.’ I had finished Judas Iscariot’s
face and the other Apostles. I was engaged now upon the table-cloth,
which was not interesting and required not much exercise of thought.
And mother sat near me, either working too or reading a good book, and
taking snuff--every lady snuffed in those days: at least in trifles, if
not in great things, the world mends. And at night, when ten o’clock
struck, I covered up my frame and stole listlessly upstairs to my room.
There, I knelt at the open window, facing Plymouth and the sea, and
asked God to take good care of father and Bobby. I do not know that I
asked for any spiritual blessings for them, I only begged that they
might be alive.

“One night, one hot night, having prayed even more heartily and
tearfully than my wont for them both, I had lain down to sleep. The
windows were left open, and the blinds up, that all possible air might
reach me from the still and scented garden below. Thinking of Bobby,
I had fallen asleep, and he is still mistily in my head, when I seem
to wake. The room is full of clear light, but it is not morning: it is
only the moon looking right in and flooding every object. I can see my
own ghostly figure sitting up in bed, reflected in the looking-glass
opposite. I listen: surely I heard some noise: yes--certainly, there
can be no doubt of it--some one is knocking loudly and perseveringly
at the hall-door. At first I fall into a deadly fear; then my reason
comes to my aid. If it were a robber, or person with any evil intent,
would he knock so openly and clamorously as to arouse the inmates?
Would not he rather go stealthily to work, to force a _silent_ entrance
for himself? At worst it is some drunken sailor from Plymouth; at
best, it is a messenger with news of our dear ones. At this thought I
instantly spring out of bed, and hurrying on my stockings and shoes and
whatever garments come most quickly to hand--with my hair spread all
over my back, and utterly forgetful of my big comb, I open my door, and
fly down the passages, into which the moon is looking with her ghostly
smile, and down the broad and shallow stairs.

“As I near the hall-door I meet our old butler, also rather
dishevelled, and evidently on the same errand as myself.

“‘Who _can_ it be, Stephens?’ I ask, trembling with excitement and
fear.

“‘Indeed, ma’am, I cannot tell you,’ replies the old man, shaking his
head, ‘it is a very odd time of night to choose for making such a
noise. We will ask them their business, whoever they are, before we
unchain the door.’

“It seems to me as if the endless bolts would never be drawn--the key
never be turned in the stiff lock; but at last the door opens slowly
and cautiously, only to the width of a few inches, as it is still
confined by the strong chain. I peep out eagerly, expecting I know not
what.

“Good heavens! What do I see? No drunken sailor, no messenger, but, oh
joy! oh blessedness! my Bobby himself--my beautiful boy-lover! Even
_now_, even after all these weary years, even after the long bitterness
that followed, I cannot forget the unutterable happiness of that moment.

“‘Open the door, Stephens, quick!’ I cry, stammering with eagerness.
‘Draw the chain; it is Mr. Gerard; do not keep him waiting.’

“The chain rattles down, the door opens wide, and there he stands
before me. At once, ere any one has said anything, ere anything has
happened, a feeling of cold disappointment steals unaccountably over
me--a nameless sensation, whose nearest kin is chilly awe. He makes
no movement towards me; he does not catch me in his arms, nor even
hold out his right hand to me. He stands there still and silent, and
though the night is dry, equally free from rain and dew, I see that he
is dripping wet; the water is running down from his clothes, from his
drenched hair, and even from his eyelashes, on to the dry ground at his
feet.

“‘What has happened?’ I cry, hurriedly, ‘How wet you are!’ and as I
speak I stretch out my hand and lay it on his coat sleeve. But even as
I do it a sensation of intense cold runs up my fingers and my arm,
even to the elbow. How is it that he is so chilled to the marrow of his
bones on this sultry, breathless, August night? To my extreme surprise
he does not answer; he still stands there, dumb and dripping. ‘Where
have you come from?’ I ask, with that sense of awe deepening. ‘Have you
fallen into the river? How is it that you are so wet?’

“‘It was cold,’ he says, shivering, and speaking in a slow and
strangely altered voice, ‘bitter cold. I could not stay there.’

“‘Stay where?’ I say, looking in amazement at his face, which, whether
owing to the ghastly effect of moonlight or not, seems to me ash white.
‘Where have you been? What is it you are talking about?’

“But he does not reply.

“‘He is really ill, I am afraid, Stephens,’ I say, turning with a
forlorn feeling towards the old butler. ‘He does not seem to hear what
I say to him. I am afraid he has had a thorough chill. What water
can he have fallen into? You had better help him up to bed, and get
him warm between the blankets. His room is quite ready for him, you
know--come in,’ I say, stretching out my hand to him, ‘you will be
better after a night’s rest.’

“He does not take my offered hand, but he follows me across the
threshold and across the hall. I hear the water drops falling drip,
drip, on the echoing stone floor as he passes; then upstairs, and along
the gallery to the door of his room, where I leave him with Stephens.
Then everything becomes blank and nil to me.

“I am awoke as usual in the morning by the entrance of my maid with hot
water.

“‘Well, how is Mr. Gerard this morning?’ I ask, springing into a
sitting posture.

“She puts down the hot water tin and stares at her leisure at me.

“‘My dear Miss Phœbe, how should _I_ know? Please God he is in good
health and safe, and that we shall have good news of him before long.’

“‘Have not you asked how he is?’ I ask impatiently. ‘He did not seem
quite himself last night; there was something odd about him. I was
afraid he was in for another touch of fever.’

“‘Last night--fever,’ repeats she, slowly and disconnectedly echoing
some of my words. ‘I beg your pardon, ma’am, I am sure, but I have not
the least idea in life what you are talking about.’

“‘How stupid you are!’ I say, quite at the end of my patience. ‘Did not
Mr. Gerard come back unexpectedly last night, and did not I hear him
knocking, and run down to open the door, and did not Stephens come too,
and afterwards take him up to bed?’

“The stare of bewilderment gives way to a laugh.

“‘You have been dreaming, ma’am. Of course I cannot answer for what you
did last night, but I am sure that Stephens knows no more of the young
gentleman than I do, for only just now, at breakfast, he was saying
that he thought it was about time for us to have some tidings of him
and master.’

“‘A dream!’ cry I indignantly. ‘Impossible! I was no more dreaming then
than I am now.’

“But time convinces me that I am mistaken, and that during all the
time that I thought I was standing at the open hall-door, talking to
my beloved, in reality I was lying on my bed in the depths of sleep,
with no other company than the scent of the flowers and the light of
the moon. At this discovery a great and terrible depression falls on
me. I go to my mother to tell her of my vision, and at the end of my
narrative I say,

“‘Mother, I know well that Bobby is dead, and that I shall never see
him any more. I feel assured that he died last night, and that he came
himself to tell me of his going. I am sure that there is nothing left
for me now but to go too.’

“I speak thus far with great calmness, but when I have done I break out
into loud and violent weeping. Mother rebukes me gently, telling me
that there is nothing more natural than that I should dream of a person
who constantly occupies my waking thoughts, nor that, considering
the gloomy nature of my apprehensions about him, my dream should be
of a sad and ominous kind; but that, above all dreams and omens, God
is good, that He has preserved him hitherto, and that, for her part,
no devil-sent apparition shall shake her confidence in His continued
clemency. I go away a little comforted, though not very much, and
still every night I kneel at the open window facing Plymouth and the
sea, and pray for my sailor boy. But it seems to me, despite all my
self-reasonings, despite all that mother says, that my prayers for him
are prayers for the dead.

CHAPTER IV.

“Three more weeks pass away; the harvest is garnered, and the pears
are growing soft and mellow. Mother’s and my outward life goes on in
its silent regularity, nor do we talk much to each other of the tumult
that rages--of the heartache that burns, within each of us. At the end
of the three weeks, as we are sitting as usual, quietly employed, and
buried each in our own thoughts, in the parlour, towards evening we
hear wheels approaching the hall-door. We both run out as in my dream
I had run to the door, and arrive in time to receive my father as he
steps out of the carriage that has brought him. Well! at least _one_
of our wanderers has come home, but where is the other?

“Almost before he has heartily kissed us both--wife and child--father
cries out, ‘But where is Bobby?’

“‘That is just what I was going to ask you,’ replies mother quickly.

“‘Is not he _here_ with you?’ returns he anxiously.

“‘Not he,’ answers mother, ‘we have neither seen nor heard anything of
him for more than six weeks.’

“‘Great God!’ exclaims he, while his face assumes an expression of
the deepest concern, ‘what _can_ have become of him? what _can_ have
happened to the poor fellow?’

“‘Has not he been with you, then?--has not he been in the _Thunderer_?’
asks mother, running her words into one another in her eagerness to get
them out.

“‘I sent him home three weeks ago in a prize, with a letter to you, and
told him to stay with you till I came home, and what can have become of
him since, God only knows!’ he answers with a look of the profoundest
sorrow and anxiety.

“There is a moment of forlorn and dreary silence; then I speak. I have
been standing dumbly by, listening, and my heart growing colder and
colder at every dismal word.

“‘It is all my doing!’ I cry passionately, flinging myself down in an
agony of tears on the straight-backed old settle in the hall. ‘It is
my fault--no one else’s! The very last time that I saw him, I told him
that he would have to thank me for his death, and he laughed at me, but
it has come true. If I had not written _you_, father, that accursed
letter, we should have had him here _now_, this _minute_, safe and
sound, standing in the middle of us--as we never, _never_, shall have
him again!’

“I stop, literally suffocated with emotion.

“Father comes over, and lays his kind brown hand on my bent prone head.
‘My child,’ he says, ‘my dear child,’ (and tears are dimming the clear
grey of his own eyes), ‘you are wrong to make up your mind to what is
the worst at once. I do not disguise from you that there is cause for
grave anxiety about the dear fellow, but still God is good; He has kept
both him and me hitherto; into His hands we must trust our boy.’

“I sit up, and shake away my tears.

“‘It is no use,’ I say. ‘Why should I hope? There is no hope! I know it
for a certainty! He is _dead_’ (looking round at them both with a sort
of calmness); ‘he died on the night that I had that dream--mother, I
told you so at the time. Oh, my Bobby! I knew that you could not leave
me for ever without coming to tell me!’

“‘And so speaking, I fall into strong hysterics and am carried upstairs
to bed. And so three or four more lagging days crawl by, and still we
hear nothing, and remain in the same state of doubt and uncertainty;
which to me, however, is hardly uncertainty; so convinced am I, in my
own mind, that my fair-haired lover is away in the land whence never
letter or messenger comes--that he has reached the Great Silence. So
I sit at my frame, working my heart’s agony into the tapestry, and
feebly trying to say to God that He has done well, but I cannot. On the
contrary, it seems to me, as my life trails on through the mellow mist
of the autumn mornings, through the shortened autumn evenings, that,
whoever has done it, it is most evilly done. One night we are sitting
round the little crackling wood fire that one does not need for
warmth, but that gives a cheerfulness to the room and the furniture,
when the butler Stephens enters, and going over to father, whispers to
him. I seem to understand in a moment what the purport of his whisper
is.’

“‘Why does he whisper?’ I cry, irritably. ‘Why does not he speak
out loud? Why should you try to keep it from me? I know that it is
something about Bobby.’

“Father has already risen, and is walking towards the door.

“‘I will not let you go until you tell me,’ I cry wildly, flying after
him.

“‘A sailor has come over from Plymouth,’ he answers hurriedly; ‘he
says he has news. My darling, I will not keep you in suspense a moment
longer than I can help, and meanwhile pray--both of you pray for him!’

“I sit rigidly still, with my cold hand tightly clasped, during the
moments that next elapse. Then father returns. His eyes are full of
tears, and there is small need to ask for his message; it is most
plainly written on his features--death, and not life.

“‘You were right, Phœbe,’ he says, brokenly, taking hold of my icy
hands; ‘you knew best. He is gone! God has taken him.’

“My heart dies. I had thought that I had no hope, but I was wrong. ‘I
knew it!’ I say, in a dry stiff voice. ‘Did not I tell you so? But you
would not believe me--go on!--tell me how it was--do not think I cannot
bear it--make haste!’

“And so he tells me all that there is now left for me to know--after
what manner, and on what day, my darling took his leave of this pretty
and cruel world. He had had his wish, as I already knew, and had set
off blithely home in the last prize they had captured. Father had
taken the precaution of having a larger proportion than usual of the
Frenchmen ironed, and had also sent a greater number of Englishmen. But
to what purpose? They were nearing port, sailing prosperously along on
a smooth blue sea, with a fair strong wind, thinking of no evil, when a
great and terrible misfortune overtook them. Some of the Frenchmen who
were not ironed got the sailors below and drugged their grog; ironed
them, and freed their countrymen. Then one of the officers rushed on
deck, and holding a pistol to my Bobby’s head bade him surrender the
vessel or die. Need I tell you which he chose? I think not--well” (with
a sigh) “and so they shot my boy--ah me! how many years ago--and threw
him overboard! Yes--threw him overboard--it makes me angry and grieved
even now to think of it--into the great and greedy sea, and the vessel
escaped to France.”

There is a silence between us: I will own to you that I am crying, but
the old lady’s eyes are dry.

“Well,” she says, after a pause, with a sort of triumph in her tone,
“they never could say again that Bobby Gerard was _afraid_!

“The tears were running down my father’s cheeks, as he told me,” she
resumes presently, “but at the end he wiped them and said, ‘It is well!
He was as pleasant in God’s sight as he was in ours, and so He has
taken him.’

“And for me, I was glad that he had gone to God--none gladder. But you
will not wonder that, for myself, I was past speaking sorry. And so the
years went by, and, as you know, I married Mr. Hamilton, and lived with
him forty years, and was happy in the main, as happiness goes; and when
he died I wept much and long, and so I did for each of my sons when in
turn they went. But looking back on all my long life, the event that
I think stands out most clearly from it is my dream and my boy-lover’s
death-day. It _was_ an odd dream, was not it?”
