the Tapestried Chamber.

“I undressed and went to bed so soon as your lordship left me yesterday
evening; but the wood in the chimney, which nearly fronted my bed,
blazed brightly and cheerfully, and, aided by a hundred exciting
recollections of my childhood and youth, which had been recalled by the
unexpected pleasure of meeting your lordship, prevented me from falling
immediately asleep. I ought, however, to say that these reflections were
all of a pleasant and agreeable kind, grounded on a sense of having for
a time exchanged the labour, fatigues, and dangers of my profession for
the enjoyments of a peaceful life, and the reunion of those friendly and
affectionate ties which I had torn asunder at the rude summons of war.

“While such pleasing reflections were stealing over my mind, and
gradually lulling me to slumber, I was suddenly aroused by a sound like
that of the rustling of a silken gown, and the tapping of a pair of
high-heeled shoes, as if a woman were walking in the apartment. Ere
I could draw the curtain to see what the matter was, the figure of a
little woman passed between the bed and the fire. The back of this form
was turned to me, and I could observe, from the shoulders and neck, it
was that of an old woman, whose dress was an old-fashioned gown, which I
think ladies call a sacque--that is, a sort of robe completely loose in
the body, but gathered into broad plaits upon the neck and shoulders,
which fall down to the ground, and terminate in a species of train.

“I thought the intrusion singular enough, but never harboured for a
moment the idea that what I saw was anything more than the mortal form
of some old woman about the establishment, who had a fancy to dress like
her grandmother, and who, having perhaps (as your lordship mentioned
that you were rather straitened for room) been dislodged from her
chamber for my accommodation, had forgotten the circumstance, and
returned by twelve to her old haunt. Under this persuasion I moved
myself in bed and coughed a little, to make the intruder sensible of
my being in possession of the premises. She turned slowly round, but,
gracious Heaven! my lord, what a countenance did she display to me!
There was no longer any question what she was, or any thought of her
being a living being. Upon a face which wore the fixed features of a
corpse were imprinted the traces of the vilest and most hideous passions
which had animated her while she lived. The body of some atrocious
criminal seemed to have been given up from the grave, and the soul
restored from the penal fire, in order to form for a space a union
with the ancient accomplice of its guilt. I started up in bed, and sat
upright, supporting myself on my palms, as I gazed on this horrible
spectre. The hag made, as it seemed, a single and swift stride to the
bed where I lay, and squatted herself down upon it, in precisely the
same attitude which I had assumed in the extremity of horror, advancing
her diabolical countenance within half a yard of mine, with a grin which
seemed to intimate the malice and the derision of an incarnate fiend.”

Here General Browne stopped, and wiped from his brow the cold
perspiration with which the recollection of his horrible vision had
covered it.

“My lord,” he said, “I am no coward, I have been in all the mortal
dangers incidental to my profession, and I may truly boast that no man
ever knew Richard Browne dishonour the sword he wears; but in these
horrible circumstances, under the eyes, and, as it seemed, almost in the
grasp of an incarnation of an evil spirit, all firmness forsook me,
all manhood melted from me like wax in the furnace, and I felt my hair
individually bristle. The current of my life-blood ceased to flow, and
I sank back in a swoon, as very a victim to panic terror as ever was
a village girl, or a child of ten years old. How long I lay in this
condition I cannot pretend to guess.

“But I was roused by the castle clock striking one, so loud that it
seemed as if it were in the very room. It was some time before I dared
open my eyes, lest they should again encounter the horrible spectacle.
When, however, I summoned courage to look up, she was no longer visible.
My first idea was to pull my bell, wake the servants, and remove to a
garret or a hay-loft, to be ensured against a second visitation. Nay, I
will confess the truth that my resolution was altered, not by the shame
of exposing myself, but by the fear that, as the bell-cord hung by
the chimney, I might, in making my way to it, be again crossed by the
fiendish hag, who, I figured to myself, might be still lurking about
some corner of the apartment.

“I will not pretend to describe what hot and cold fever-fits tormented
me for the rest of the night, through broken sleep, weary vigils,
and that dubious state which forms the neutral ground between them. A
hundred terrible objects appeared to haunt me; but there was the great
difference betwixt the vision which I have described, and those which
followed, that I knew the last to be deceptions of my own fancy and
over-excited nerves.

“Day at last appeared, and I rose from my bed ill in health and
humiliated in mind. I was ashamed of myself as a man and a soldier,
and still more so at feeling my own extreme desire to escape from the
haunted apartment, which, however, conquered all other considerations;
so that, huddling on my clothes with the most careless haste, I made my
escape from your lordship’s mansion, to seek in the open air some relief
to my nervous system, shaken as it was by this horrible rencounter with
a visitant, for such I must believe her, from the other world. Your
lordship has now heard the cause of my discomposure, and of my sudden
desire to leave your hospitable castle. In other places I trust we may
often meet, but God protect me from ever spending a second night under
that roof!”

Strange as the General’s tale was, he spoke with such a deep air of
conviction that it cut short all the usual commentaries which are made
on such stories. Lord Woodville never once asked him if he was sure he
did not dream of the apparition, or suggested any of the possibilities
by which it is fashionable to explain supernatural appearances as
wild vagaries of the fancy, or deceptions of the optic nerves, On the
contrary, he seemed deeply impressed with the truth and reality of
what he had heard; and, after a considerable pause regretted, with much
appearance of sincerity, that his early friend should in his house have
suffered so severely.

“I am the more sorry for your pain, my dear Browne,” he continued, “that
it is the unhappy, though most unexpected, result of an experiment of my
own. You must know that, for my father and grandfather’s time, at least,
the apartment which was assigned to you last night had been shut on
account of reports that it was disturbed by supernatural sights and
noises. When I came, a few weeks since, into possession of the estate,
I thought the accommodation which the castle afforded for my friends was
not extensive enough to permit the inhabitants of the invisible world
to retain possession of a comfortable sleeping apartment. I therefore
caused the Tapestried Chamber, as we call it, to be opened, and, without
destroying its air of antiquity, I had such new articles of furniture
placed in it as became the modern times. Yet, as the opinion that the
room was haunted very strongly prevailed among the domestics, and was
also known in the neighbourhood and to many of my friends, I feared some
prejudice might be entertained by the first occupant of the Tapestried
Chamber, which might tend to revive the evil report which it had
laboured under, and so disappoint my purpose of rendering it a useful
part or the house. I must confess, my dear Browne, that your arrival
yesterday, agreeable to me for a thousand reasons besides, seemed the
most favourable opportunity of removing the unpleasant rumours which
attached to the room, since your courage was indubitable, and your mind
free of any preoccupation on the subject. I could not, therefore, have
chosen a more fitting subject for my experiment.”

“Upon my life,” said General Browne, somewhat hastily, “I am infinitely
obliged to your lordship--very particularly indebted indeed. I am likely
to remember for some time the consequences of the experiment, as your
lordship is pleased to call it.”

“Nay, now you are unjust, my dear friend,” said Lord Woodville. “You
have only to reflect for a single moment, in order to be convinced that
I could not augur the possibility of the pain to which you have been
so unhappily exposed. I was yesterday morning a complete sceptic on the
subject of supernatural appearances. Nay, I am sure that, had I told
you what was said about that room, those very reports would have induced
you, by your own choice, to select it for your accommodation. It was my
misfortune, perhaps my error, but really cannot be termed my fault, that
you have been afflicted so strangely.”

“Strangely indeed!” said the General, resuming his good temper; “and I
acknowledge that I have no right to be offended with your lordship for
treating me like what I used to think myself--a man of some firmness
and courage. But I see my post horses are arrived, and I must not detain
your lordship from your amusement.”

“Nay, my old friend,” said Lord Woodville, “since you cannot stay with
us another day--which, indeed, I can no longer urge--give me at least
half an hour more. You used to love pictures, and I have a gallery of
portraits, some of them by Vandyke, representing ancestry to whom this
property and castle formerly belonged. I think that several of them will
strike you as possessing merit.”

General Browne accepted the invitation, though somewhat unwillingly.
It was evident he was not to breathe freely or at ease till he left
Woodville Castle far behind him. He could not refuse his friend’s
invitation, however; and the less so, that he was a little ashamed
of the peevishness which he had displayed towards his well-meaning
entertainer.

The General, therefore, followed Lord Woodville through several rooms
into a long gallery hung with pictures, which the latter pointed out to
his guest, telling the names, and giving some account of the personages
whose portraits presented themselves in progression. General Browne was
but little interested in the details which these accounts conveyed to
him. They were, indeed, of the kind which are usually found in an old
family gallery. Here was a Cavalier who had ruined the estate in the
royal cause; there a fine lady who had reinstated it by contracting a
match with a wealthy Roundhead. There hung a gallant who had been in
danger for corresponding with the exiled Court at Saint Germain’s; here
one who had taken arms for William at the Revolution; and there a third
that had thrown his weight alternately into the scale of Whig and Tory.

While lord Woodville was cramming these words into his guest’s ear,
“against the stomach of his sense,” they gained the middle of the
gallery, when he beheld General Browne suddenly start, and assume an
attitude of the utmost surprise, not unmixed with fear, as his eyes were
suddenly caught and riveted by a portrait of an old lady in a sacque,
the fashionable dress of the end of the seventeenth century.

“There she is!” he exclaimed--“there she is, in form and features,
though Inferior in demoniac expression to the accursed hag who visited
me last night!”

“If that be the case,” said the young nobleman, “there can remain no
longer any doubt of the horrible reality of your apparition. That is the
picture of a wretched ancestress of mine, of whose crimes a black and
fearful catalogue is recorded in a family history in my charter-chest.
The recital of them would be too horrible; it is enough to say, that in
yon fatal apartment incest and unnatural murder were committed. I will
restore it to the solitude to which the better judgment of those who
preceded me had consigned it; and never shall any one, so long as I can
prevent it, be exposed to a repetition of the supernatural horrors which
could shake such courage as yours.”

Thus the friends, who had met with such glee, parted in a very different
mood--Lord Woodville to command the Tapestried Chamber to be unmantled,
and the door built up; and General Browne to seek in some less beautiful
country, and with some less dignified friend, forgetfulness of the
painful night which he had passed in Woodville Castle.

END OF THE TAPESTRIED CHAMBER.

*****
