THE MAN WITH THE NOSE.

THE MAN WITH THE NOSE.

[The details of this little story are of course imaginary, but the main
incidents are, to the best of my belief, facts. They happened twenty,
or more than twenty years ago.]

CHAPTER I.

“Let us get a map and see what places look pleasantest?” says she.

“As for that,” reply I, “on a map most places look equally pleasant.”

“Never mind; get one!”

I obey.

“Do you like the seaside?” asks Elizabeth, lifting her little brown
head and her small happy white face from the English sea-coast along
which, her forefinger is slowly travelling.

“Since you ask me, distinctly _no_,” reply I, for once venturing to
have a decided opinion of my own, which during the last few weeks
of imbecility I can be hardly said to have had. “I broke my last
wooden spade five and twenty years ago. I have but a poor opinion of
cockles--sandy red-nosed things, are not they? and the air always makes
me bilious.”

“Then we certainly will not go there,” says Elizabeth, laughing. “A
bilious bridegroom! alliterative but horrible! None of our friends show
the least eagerness to lend us their country house.”

“Oh that God would put it into the hearts of men to take their wives
straight home, as their fathers did,” say I, with a cross groan.

“It is evident, therefore, that we must go somewhere,” returns she,
not heeding the aspiration contained in my last speech, making her
forefinger resume its employment, and reaching Torquay.

“I suppose so,” say I, with a sort of sigh; “for once in our lives we
must resign ourselves to having the finger of derision pointed at us by
waiters and landlords.”

“You shall leave your new portmanteau at home, and I will leave all my
best clothes, and nobody will guess that we are bride and bridegroom;
they will think that we have been married--oh, ever since the world
began” (opening her eyes very wide).

I shake my head. “With an old portmanteau and in rags we shall still
have the mark of the beast upon us.”

“Do you mind much? do you hate being ridiculous?” asks Elizabeth,
meekly, rather depressed by my view of the case; “because if so, let
us go somewhere out of the way, where there will be very few people to
laugh at us.”

“On the contrary,” return I, stoutly, “we will betake ourselves to
some spot where such as we do chiefly congregate--where we shall be
swallowed up and lost in the multitude of our fellow-sinners.” A
pause devoted to reflection. “What do you say to Killarney?” say I,
cheerfully.

“There are a great many fleas there, I believe,” replies Elizabeth,
slowly; “flea-bites make large lumps on me; you would not like me if I
were covered with large lumps.”

At the hideous ideal picture thus presented to me by my little beloved
I relapse into inarticulate idiocy; emerging from which by-and-by, I
suggest “The Lakes?” My arm is round her, and I feel her supple body
shiver though it is mid July, and the bees are booming about in the
still and sleepy noon garden outside.

“Oh--no--no--not _there_!”

“Why such emphasis?” I ask gaily; “more fleas? At this rate, and with
this _sine quâ non_, our choice will grow limited.”

“Something dreadful happened to me there,” she says, with another
shudder. “But indeed I did not think there was any harm in it--I never
thought anything would come of it.”

“What the devil was it?” cry I, in a jealous heat and hurry; “what the
mischief _did_ you do, and why have not you told me about it before?”

“I did not _do_ much,” she answers meekly, seeking for my hand, and
when found kissing it in timid deprecation of my wrath; “but I was
ill--very ill--there; I had a nervous fever. I was in a bed hung with
a chintz with a red and green fern-leaf pattern on it. I have always
hated red and green fern-leaf chintzes ever since.”

“It would be possible to avoid the obnoxious bed, would not it?” say
I, laughing a little. “Where does it lie? Windermere? Ulleswater?
Wastwater? Where?”

“We were at Ulleswater,” she says, speaking rapidly, while a hot colour
grows on her small white cheeks--“Papa, mamma, and I; and there came
a mesmeriser to Penrith, and we went to see him--everybody did--and
he asked leave to mesmerise me--he said I should be such a good
medium--and--and--I did not know what it was like. I thought it would
be quite good fun--and--and--I let him.”

She is trembling exceedingly; even the loving pressure of my arms
cannot abate her shivering.

“Well?”

“And after that I do not remember anything--I believe I did all sorts
of extraordinary things that he told me--sang and danced, and made a
fool of myself--but when I came home I was very ill, very--I lay in
bed for five whole weeks, and--and was off my head, and said odd and
wicked things that you would not have expected me to say--that dreadful
bed! shall I ever forget it?”

“We will _not_ go to the Lakes,” I say, decisively, “and we will not
talk any more about mesmerism.”

“That is right,” she says, with a sigh of relief, “I try to think
about it as little as possible; but sometimes, in the dead black of
the night, when God seems a long way off, and the devil near, it
comes back to me so strongly--I feel, do not you know, as if he were
_there_--somewhere in the room, and I _must_ get up and follow him.”

“Why should not we go abroad?” suggest I, abruptly turning the
conversation.

“Why, indeed?” cries Elizabeth, recovering her gaiety, while her pretty
blue eyes begin to dance. “How stupid of us not to have thought of it
before; only _abroad_ is a big word. _What_ abroad?”

“We must be content with something short of Central Africa,” I say,
gravely, “as I think our one hundred and fifty pounds would hardly take
us that far.”

“Wherever we go, we must buy a dialogue book,” suggests my little bride
elect, “and I will learn some phrases before we start.”

“As for that, the Anglo-Saxon tongue takes one pretty well round the
world,” reply I, with a feeling of complacent British swagger, putting
my hands in my breeches pockets.

“Do you fancy the Rhine?” says Elizabeth, with a rather timid
suggestion; “I know it is the fashion to run it down nowadays, and
call it a cocktail river; but--but--after all it cannot be so _very_
contemptible, or Byron could not have said such noble things about it.”

  “The castled crag of Drachenfels
    Frowns o’er the wide and winding Rhine,
  Whose breast of waters broadly swells
    Between the banks which bear the vine,”

say I, spouting. “After all, that proves nothing, for Byron could have
made a silk purse out of a sow’s ear.”

“The Rhine will not do then?” says she, resignedly, suppressing a sigh.

“On the contrary, it will do admirably: it _is_ a cocktail river, and I
do not care who says it is not,” reply I, with illiberal positiveness;
“but everybody should be able to say so from their own experience, and
not from hearsay: the Rhine let it be, by all means.”

So the Rhine it is.

CHAPTER II.

I have got over it; we have both got over it tolerably, creditably;
but after all, it is a much severer ordeal for a man than a woman,
who, with a bouquet to occupy her hands, and a veil to gently shroud
her features, need merely be prettily passive. I am alluding, I need
hardly say, to the religious ceremony of marriage, which I flatter
myself I have gone through with a stiff sheepishness not unworthy of
my country. It is a three-days-old event now, and we are getting used
to belonging to one another, though Elizabeth still takes off her
ring twenty times a day to admire its bright thickness; still laughs
when she hears herself called “Madame.” Three days ago, we kissed all
our friends, and left them to make themselves ill on our cake, and
criticise our bridal behaviour, and now we are at Brussels, she and I,
feeling oddly, joyfully free from any chaperone. We have been mildly
sight-seeing--very mildly, most people would say, but we have resolved
not to take our pleasure with the railway speed of Americans, or the
hasty sadness of our fellow Britons. Slowly and gaily we have been
taking ours. To-day we have been to visit Wiertz’s pictures. Have you
ever seen them, oh reader? They are known to comparatively few people,
but if you have a taste for the unearthly terrible--if you wish to
sup full of horrors, hasten thither. We have been peering through the
appointed peep-hole at the horrible cholera picture--the man buried
alive by mistake, pushing up the lid of his coffin, and stretching
a ghastly face and livid hands out of his winding sheet towards you,
while awful grey-blue coffins are piled around, and noisome toads and
giant spiders crawl damply about. On first seeing it, I have reproached
myself for bringing one of so nervous a temperament as Elizabeth to see
so haunting and hideous a spectacle; but she is less impressed than I
expected--less impressed than I myself am.

“He is very lucky to be able to get his lid up,” she says, with a
half-laugh; “we should find it hard work to burst our brass nails,
should not we? When you bury me, dear, fasten me down very slightly, in
case there may be some mistake.”

And now all the long and quiet July evening we have been prowling
together about the streets. Brussels is the town of towns for
_flâner_-ing--have been flattening our noses against the shop windows,
and making each other imaginary presents. Elizabeth has not confined
herself to imagination, however; she has made me buy her a little
bonnet with feathers--“in order to look married,” as she says, and the
result is such a delicious picture of a child playing at being grown
up, having practised a theft on its mother’s wardrobe, that for the
last two hours I have been in a foolish ecstasy of love and laughter
over her and it. We are at the “Bellevue,” and have a fine suite of
rooms, _au premier_, evidently specially devoted to the English, to
the gratification of whose well-known loyalty the Prince and Princess
of Wales are simpering from the walls. Is there any one in the three
kingdoms who knows his own face as well as he knows the faces of
Albert Victor and Alexandra? The long evening has at last slidden
into night--night far advanced--night melting into earliest day. All
Brussels is asleep. One moment ago I also was asleep, soundly as any
log. What is it that has made me take this sudden, headlong plunge
out of sleep into wakefulness? Who is it that is clutching at and
calling upon me? What is it that is making me struggle mistily up into
a sitting posture, and try to revive my sleep-numbed senses? A summer
night is never wholly dark; by the half light that steals through the
closed _persiennes_ and open windows I see my wife standing beside
my bed; the extremity of terror on her face, and her fingers digging
themselves with painful tenacity into my arm.

“Tighter, tighter!” she is crying, wildly. “What are you thinking of?
You are letting me go!”

“Good heavens!” say I, rubbing my eyes, while my muddy brain grows
a trifle clearer. “What is it? What has happened? Have you had a
nightmare?”

“You saw him,” she says, with a sort of sobbing breathlessness; “you
know you did! You saw him as well as I.”

“I!” cry I, incredulously--“not I. Till this second I have been fast
asleep. _I_ saw nothing.”

“You did!” she cries, passionately. “You know you did. Why do you deny
it? You were as frightened as I?”

“As I live,” I answer, solemnly, “I know no more than the dead what you
are talking about; till you woke me by calling me and catching hold of
me, I was as sound asleep as the seven sleepers.”

“Is it possible that it can have been a _dream_?” she says, with a
long sigh, for a moment loosing my arm, and covering her face with her
hands. “But no--in a dream I should have been somewhere else, but I was
here--_here_--on that bed, and he stood _there_,” pointing with her
forefinger, “just _there_, between the foot of it and the window!”

She stops, panting.

“It is all that brute Wiertz,” say I, in a fury. “I wish I had been
buried alive myself, before I had been fool enough to take you to see
his beastly daubs.”

“Light a candle,” she says, in the same breathless way, her teeth
chattering with fright. “Let us make sure that he is not hidden
somewhere in the room.”

“How could he be?” say I, striking a match; “the door is locked.”

“He might have got in by the balcony,” she answers, still trembling
violently.

“He would have had to have cut a very large hole in the _persiennes_,”
say I, half-mockingly. “See, they are intact and well fastened on the
inside.”

She sinks into an arm-chair, and pushes her loose soft hair from her
white face.

“It _was_ a dream then, I suppose?”

She is silent for a moment or two, while I bring her a glass of water,
and throw a dressing-gown round her cold and shrinking form.

“Now tell me, my little one,” I say, coaxingly, sitting down at her
feet, “what it was--what you thought you saw?”

“_Thought_ I saw!” echoes she, with indignant emphasis, sitting
upright, while her eyes sparkle feverishly. “I am as certain that I saw
him standing there as I am that I see that candle burning--that I see
this chair--that I see you.”

“_Him!_ but who is _him_?”

She falls forward on my neck, and buries her face in my shoulder.

“That--dreadful--man!” she says, while her whole body is one tremor.

“_What_ dreadful man?” cry I, impatiently.

She is silent.

“Who was he?”

“I do not know.”

“Did you ever see him before?”

“Oh, no--no, never! I hope to God I may never see him again!”

“What was he like?”

“Come closer to me,” she says, laying hold of my hand with her small
and chilly fingers; “stay _quite_ near me, and I will tell you,”--after
a pause--“he had a _nose_!”

“My dear soul,” cry I, bursting out with a loud laugh in the silence of
the night, “do not most people have noses? Would not he have been much
more dreadful if he had had _none_?”

“But it was _such_ a nose!” she says, with perfect trembling gravity.

“A bottle nose?” suggest I, still cackling.

“For heaven’s sake, don’t laugh!” she says, nervously; “if you had seen
his face, you would have been as little disposed to laugh as I.”

“But his nose?” return I, suppressing my merriment; “what kind of nose
was it? See, I am as grave as a judge.”

“It was very prominent,” she answers, in a sort of awe-struck
half-whisper, “and very sharply chiselled; the nostrils very much cut
out.” A little pause. “His eyebrows were one straight black line across
his face, and under them his eyes burnt like dull coals of fire, that
shone and yet did not shine; they looked like dead eyes, sunken, half
extinguished, and yet sinister.”

“And what did he do?” ask I, impressed, despite myself, by her
passionate earnestness; “when did you first see him?”

“I was asleep,” she said--“at least I thought so--and suddenly I opened
my eyes, and he was _there_--_there_”--pointing again with trembling
finger--“between the window and the bed.”

“What was he doing? Was he walking about?”

“He was standing as still as stone--I never saw any live thing so
still--_looking_ at me; he never called or beckoned, or moved a
finger, but his eyes _commanded_ me to come to him, as the eyes of the
mesmeriser at Penrith did.” She stops, breathing heavily. I can hear
her heart’s loud and rapid beats.

“And you?” I say, pressing her more closely to my side, and smoothing
her troubled hair.

“I _hated_ it,” she cries, excitedly; “I loathed it--abhorred it. I was
ice-cold with fear and horror, but--I _felt_ myself going to him.”

“Yes?”

“And then I shrieked out to you, and you came running, and caught fast
hold of me, and held me tight at first--quite tight--but presently
I felt your hold slacken--slacken--and though I _longed_ to stay
with you, though I was _mad_ with fright, yet I felt myself pulling
strongly away from you--going to him; and he--he stood there always
looking--looking--and then I gave one last loud shriek, and I suppose I
awoke--and it was a dream!”

“I never heard of a clearer case of nightmare,” say I, stoutly; “that
vile Wiertz! I should like to see his whole _Musée_ burnt by the hands
of the hangman to-morrow.”

She shakes her head. “It had nothing to say to Wiertz; what it meant I
do not know, but----”

“It meant nothing,” I answer, reassuringly, “except that for the future
we will go and see none but good and pleasant sights, and steer clear
of charnel-house fancies.”

CHAPTER III.

Elizabeth is now in a position to decide whether the Rhine is a
cocktail river or no, for she is on it, and so am I. We are sitting,
with an awning over our heads, and little wooden stools under our
feet. Elizabeth has a small sailor’s hat and blue ribbon on her head.
The river breeze has blown it rather awry; has tangled her plenteous
hair; has made a faint pink stain on her pale cheeks. It is some fête
day, and the boat is crowded. Tables, countless camp-stools, volumes
of black smoke pouring from the funnel, as we steam along. “Nothing to
the Caledonian Canal!” cries a burly Scotchman in leggings, speaking
with loud authority, and surveying with an air of contempt the eternal
vine-clad slopes, that sound so well, and look so _sticky_ in reality.
“Cannot hold a candle to it!” A rival bride and bridegroom opposite,
sitting together like love-birds under an umbrella, looking into each
other’s eyes instead of at the Rhine scenery.

“They might as well have stayed at home, might not they?” says my wife,
with a little air of superiority. “Come, we are not so bad as that, are
we?”

A storm comes on: hailstones beat slantwise and reach us--stone and
sting us right under our awning. Everybody rushes down below, and
takes the opportunity to feed ravenously. There are few actions more
disgusting than eating _can_ be made. A handsome girl close to us--her
immaturity evidenced by the two long tails of black hair down her
back--is thrusting her knife half way down her throat.

“Come on deck again,” says Elizabeth, disgusted and frightened at this
last sight. “The hail was much better than this!”

So we return to our camp-stools, and sit alone under one mackintosh in
the lashing storm, with happy hearts and empty stomachs.

“Is not this better than any luncheon?” asks Elizabeth, triumphantly,
while the raindrops hang on her long and curled lashes.

“Infinitely better,” reply I, madly struggling with the umbrella to
prevent its being blown inside out, and gallantly ignoring a species of
gnawing sensation at my entrails.

The squall clears off by-and-by, and we go steaming, steaming on
past the unnumbered little villages by the water’s edge with church
spires and pointed roof, past the countless rocks with their little
pert castles perched on the top of them, past the tall, stiff poplar
rows. The church bells are ringing gaily as we go by. A nightingale is
singing from a wood. The black eagle of Prussia droops on the stream
behind us, swish-swish through the dull green water. A fat woman who is
interested in it, leans over the back of the boat, and by some happy
effect of crinoline, displays to her fellow-passengers two yards of
thick white cotton legs. She is, fortunately for herself, unconscious
of her generosity.

The day steals on; at every stopping place more people come on. There
is hardly elbow room; and, what is worse, almost everybody is drunk.
Rocks, castles, villages, poplars, slide by, while the paddles churn
always the water, and the evening draws greyly on. At Bingen a party of
big blue Prussian soldiers, very drunk, “glorious” as Tam o’ Shanter,
come and establish themselves close to us. They call for Lager Beer;
talk at the tip-top of their strong voices; two of them begin to spar;
all seem inclined to sing. Elizabeth is frightened. We are two hours
late in arriving at Biebrich. It is half an hour more before we can
get ourselves and our luggage into a carriage and set off along the
winding road to Wiesbaden. “The night is chilly, but not dark.” There
is only a little shabby bit of a moon, but it shines as hard as it can.
Elizabeth is quite worn out, her tired head droops in uneasy sleep on
my shoulder. Once she wakes up with a start.

“Are you sure that it meant nothing?” she asks, looking me eagerly in
my face; “do people often have such dreams?”

“Often, often,” I answer, reassuringly.

“I am always afraid of falling asleep now,” she says, trying to sit
upright and keep her heavy eyes open, “for fear of seeing him standing
there again. Tell me, do you think I shall? Is there any chance, any
probability of it?”

“None, none!”

We reach Wiesbaden at last, and drive up to the Hôtel des Quatre
Saisons. By this time it is full midnight. Two or three men are
standing about the door. Morris, the maid, has got out--so have I,
and I am holding out my hand to Elizabeth, when I hear her give one
piercing scream, and see her with ash-white face and starting eyes
point with her forefinger----

“There he is!--there!--there!”

I look in the direction indicated, and just catch a glimpse of a tall
figure, standing half in the shadow of the night, half in the gaslight
from the hotel. I have not time for more than one cursory glance, as I
am interrupted by a cry from the bystanders, and turning quickly round,
am just in time to catch my wife, who falls in utter insensibility into
my arms. We carry her into a room on the ground floor; it is small,
noisy, and hot, but it is the nearest at hand. In about an hour she
re-opens her eyes. A strong shudder makes her quiver from head to foot.

“Where is he?” she says, in a terrified whisper, as her senses come
slowly back. “He is somewhere about--somewhere near. I feel that he is!”

“My dearest child, there is no one here but Morris and me,” I answer,
soothingly. “Look for yourself. See.”

I take one of the candles and light up each corner of the room in
succession.

“You saw him!” she says, in trembling hurry, sitting up and clenching
her hands together. “I know you did--I pointed him out to you--you
_cannot_ say that it was a dream _this_ time.”

“I saw two or three ordinary looking men as we drove up,” I answer,
in a commonplace, matter-of-fact tone. “I did not notice anything
remarkable about any of them; you know the fact is, darling, that you
have had nothing to eat all day, nothing but a biscuit, and you are
over-wrought, and fancy things.”

“Fancy!” echoes she, with strong irritation. “How you talk! Was I ever
one to fancy things? I tell you that as sure as I sit here--as sure as
you stand there--I saw him--_him_--the man I saw in my dream, if it was
a dream. There was not a hair’s breadth of difference between them--and
he was looking at me--looking----”

She breaks off into hysterical sobbing.

“My dear child!” say I, thoroughly alarmed, and yet half angry, “for
God’s sake do not work yourself up into a fever: wait till to-morrow,
and we will find out who he is, and all about him; you yourself will
laugh when we discover that he is some harmless bagman.”

“Why not _now_?” she says, nervously; “why cannot you find out
_now_--_this minute_?”

“Impossible! Everybody is in bed! Wait till to-morrow, and all will be
cleared up.”

The morrow comes, and I go about the hotel, inquiring. The house is so
full, and the data I have to go upon are so small, that for some time I
have great difficulty in making it understood to whom I am alluding. At
length one waiter seems to comprehend.

“A tall and dark gentleman, with a pronounced and very peculiar nose?
Yes; there has been such a one, certainly, in the hotel, but he left at
‘grand matin’ this morning; he remained only one night.”

“And his name?”

The garçon shakes his head. “That is unknown, monsieur; he did not
inscribe it in the visitor’s book.”

“What countryman was he?”

Another shake of the head. “He spoke German, but it was with a foreign
accent.”

“Whither did he go?”

That also is unknown. Nor can I arrive at any more facts about him.

CHAPTER IV.

A fortnight has passed; we have been hither and thither; now we are at
Lucerne. Peopled with better inhabitants, Lucerne might well do for
Heaven. It is drawing towards eventide, and Elizabeth and I are sitting
hand in hand on a quiet bench, under the shady linden trees, on a high
hill up above the lake. There is nobody to see us, so we sit peaceably
hand in hand. Up by the still and solemn monastery we came, with its
small and narrow windows, calculated to hinder the holy fathers from
promenading curious eyes on the world, the flesh, and the devil,
tripping past them in blue gauze veils: below us grass and green trees,
houses with high-pitched roofs, little dormer-windows, and shutters
yet greener than the grass; below us the lake in its rippleless peace,
calm, quiet, motionless as Bethesda’s pool before the coming of the
troubling angel.

“I said it was too good to last,” say I, doggedly, “did not I, only
yesterday? Perfect peace, perfect sympathy, perfect freedom from
nagging worries--when did such a state of things last more than two
days?”

Elizabeth’s eyes are idly fixed on a little steamer, with a stripe of
red along its side, and a tiny puff of smoke from its funnel, gliding
along and cutting a narrow white track on Lucerne’s sleepy surface.

“This is the fifth false alarm of the gout having gone to his stomach
within the last two years,” continue I, resentfully. “I declare to
Heaven, that if it has not really gone there this time, I’ll cut the
whole concern.”

Let no one cast up their eyes in horror, imagining that it is my father
to whom I am thus alluding; it is only a great uncle by marriage,
in consideration of whose wealth and vague promises I have dawdled
professionless through twenty-eight years of my life.

“You _must_ not go,” says Elizabeth, giving my hand an imploring
squeeze. “The man in the Bible said, ‘I have married a wife, and
therefore I cannot come;’ why should it be a less valid excuse now a
days?”

“If I recollect rightly, it was considered rather a poor one even
then,” reply I, dryly.

Elizabeth is unable to contradict this, she therefore only lifts two
pouted lips (Monsieur Taine objects to the redness of English women’s
mouths, but I do not) to be kissed, and says, “Stay.” I am good enough
to comply with her unspoken request, though I remain firm with regard
to her spoken one.

“My dearest child,” I say, with an air of worldly experience and
superior wisdom, “kisses are very good things--in fact there are few
better--but one cannot live upon them.”

“Let us try,” she says, coaxingly.

“I wonder which would get tired first?” I say, laughing. But she only
goes on pleading, “Stay, stay.”

“How _can_ I stay?” I cry, impatiently; “you talk as if I _wanted_ to
go! Do you think it is any pleasanter to me to leave you than to you
to be left? But you know his disposition, his rancorous resentment of
fancied neglects. For the sake of two days’ indulgence, must I throw
away what will keep us in ease and plenty to the end of our days?”

“I do not care for plenty,” she says, with a little petulant gesture.
“I do not see that rich people are any happier than poor ones. Look at
the St. Clairs; they have £40,000 a-year, and she is a miserable woman,
perfectly miserable, because her face gets red after dinner.”

“There will be no fear of _our_ faces getting red after dinner,” say I,
grimly, “for we shall have no dinner for them to get red after.”

A pause. My eyes stray away to the mountains. Pilatus on the right,
with his jagged peak and slender snow-chains about his harsh neck; hill
after hill rising silent, eternal, like guardian spirits standing hand
in hand around their child, the lake. As I look, suddenly they have
all flushed, as at some noblest thought, and over all their sullen
faces streams an ineffable rosy joy--a solemn and wonderful effulgence,
such as Israel saw reflected from the features of the Eternal in their
prophet’s transfigured eyes. The unutterable peace and stainless
beauty of earth and sky seem to lie softly on my soul. “Would God I
could stay! Would God all life could be like this!” I say, devoutly,
and the aspiration has the reverent earnestness of a prayer.

“Why do you say, ‘_Would God!_’” she cries, passionately, “when it lies
with yourself? Oh my dear love,” gently sliding her hand through my
arm, and lifting wetly-beseeching eyes to my face, “I do not know why
I insist upon it so much--I cannot tell you myself--I daresay I seem
selfish and unreasonable--but I feel as if your going now would be the
end of all things--as if----.” She breaks off suddenly.

“My child,” say I, thoroughly distressed, but still determined to have
my own way, “you talk as if I were going for ever and a day; in a week,
at the outside, I shall be back, and then you will thank me for the
very thing for which you now think me so hard and disobliging.”

“Shall I?” she answers, mournfully. “Well, I hope so.”

“You will not be alone, either; you will have Morris.”

“Yes.”

“And every day you will write me a long letter, telling me every single
thing that you do, say, and think.”

“Yes.”

She answers me gently and obediently; but I can see that she is still
utterly unreconciled to the idea of my absence.

“What is it that you are afraid of?” I ask, becoming rather irritated.
“What do you suppose will happen to you?”

She does not answer; only a large tear falls on my hand, which she
hastily wipes away with her pocket handkerchief, as if afraid of
exciting my wrath.

“Can you give me any good reason why I _should_ stay?” I ask,
dictatorially.

“None--none--only--stay--stay!”

But I am resolved _not_ to stay. Early the next morning I set off.

CHAPTER V.

This time it is not a false alarm; this time it really has gone to his
stomach, and, declining to be dislodged thence, kills him. My return is
therefore retarded until after the funeral and the reading of the will.
The latter is so satisfactory, and my time is so fully occupied with a
multiplicity of attendant business, that I have no leisure to regret
the delay. I write to Elizabeth, but receive no letters from her. This
surprises and makes me rather angry, but does not alarm me. “If she
had been ill, if anything had happened, Morris would have written. She
never was great at writing, poor little soul. What dear little babyish
notes she used to send me during our engagement; perhaps she wishes to
punish me for my disobedience to her wishes. Well, _now_ she will see
who was in the right.” I am drawing near her now; I am walking up from
the railway station at Lucerne. I am very joyful as I march along under
an umbrella, in the grand broad shining of the summer afternoon. I
think with pensive passion of the last glimpse I had of my beloved--her
small and wistful face looking out from among the thick fair fleece of
her long hair--winking away her tears and blowing kisses to me. It is
a new sensation to me to have any one looking tearfully wistful over
my departure. I draw near the great glaring Schweizerhof, with its
colonnaded, tourist-crowded porch; here are all the pomegranates as I
left them, in their green tubs, with their scarlet blossoms, and the
dusty oleanders in a row. I look up at our windows; nobody is looking
out from them; they are open, and the curtains are alternately swelled
out and drawn in by the softly-playful wind. I run quickly upstairs and
burst noisily into the sitting-room. Empty, perfectly empty! I open the
adjoining door into the bedroom, crying “Elizabeth! Elizabeth!” but
I receive no answer. Empty too. A feeling of indignation creeps over
me as I think, “Knowing the time of my return, she might have managed
to be indoors.” I have returned to the silent sitting-room, where the
only noise is the wind still playing hide-and-seek with the curtains.
As I look vacantly round my eye catches sight of a letter lying on the
table. I pick it up mechanically and look at the address. Good heavens!
what can this mean? It is my own, that I sent her two days ago,
unopened, with the seal unbroken. Does she carry her resentment so far
as not even to open my letters? I spring at the bell and violently ring
it. It is answered by the waiter who has always specially attended us.

“Is madame gone out?”

The man opens his mouth and stares at me.

“Madame! Is monsieur then not aware that madame is no longer at the
hotel?”

“_What?_”

“On the same day as monsieur, madame departed.”

“_Departed!_ Good God! what are you talking about?”

“A few hours after monsieur’s departure--I will not be positive as to
the exact time, but it must have been between one and two o’clock as
the midday _table d’hôte_ was in progress--a gentleman came and asked
for madame----”

“Yes--be quick.”

“I demanded whether I should take up his card, but he said ‘No,’ that
was unnecessary, as he was perfectly well known to madame; and, in
fact, a short time afterwards, without saying anything to any one, she
departed with him.”

“And did not return in the evening?”

“No, monsieur; madame has not returned since that day.”

I clench my hands in an agony of rage and grief. “So this is it! With
that pure child-face, with that divine ignorance--only three weeks
married--this is the trick she has played me!” I am recalled to myself
by a compassionate suggestion from the garçon.

“Perhaps it was the brother of madame.”

Elizabeth has no brother, but the remark brings back to me the
necessity of self-command. “Very probably,” I answer, speaking with
infinite difficulty. “What sort of looking gentleman was he?”

“He was a very tall and dark gentleman with a most peculiar nose--not
quite like any nose that I ever saw before--and most singular eyes.
Never have I seen a gentleman who at all resembled him.”

I sink into a chair, while a cold shudder creeps over me as I think
of my poor child’s dream--of her fainting fit at Wiesbaden--of her
unconquerable dread of and aversion from my departure. And this
happened twelve days ago! I catch up my hat, and prepare to rush like a
madman in pursuit.

“How did they go?” I ask incoherently; “by train?--driving?--walking?”

“They went in a carriage.”

“What direction did they take? Whither did they go?”

He shakes his head. “It is not known.”

“It _must_ be known,” I cry, driven to frenzy by every second’s delay.
“Of course the driver could tell; where is he?--where can I find him?”

“He did not belong to Lucerne, neither did the carriage; the gentleman
brought them with him.”

“But madame’s maid,” say I, a gleam of hope flashing across my mind;
“did she go with her?”

“No, monsieur, she is still here; she was as much surprised as monsieur
at madame’s departure.”

“Send her at once,” I cry eagerly; but when she comes I find that she
can throw no light on the matter. She weeps noisily and says many
irrelevant things, but I can obtain no information from her beyond the
fact that she was unaware of her mistress’s departure until long after
it had taken place, when, surprised at not being rung for at the usual
time, she had gone to her room and found it empty, and on inquiring in
the hotel, had heard of her sudden departure; that, expecting her to
return at night, she had sat up waiting for her till two o’clock in
the morning, but that, as I knew, she had not returned, neither had
anything since been heard of her.

Not all my inquiries, not all my cross-questionings of the whole staff
of the hotel, of the visitors, of the railway officials, of nearly all
the inhabitants of Lucerne and its environs, procure me a jot more
knowledge. On the next few weeks I look back as on a hellish and insane
dream. I can neither eat nor sleep; I am unable to remain one moment
quiet; my whole existence, my nights and my days, are spent in seeking,
seeking. Everything that human despair and frenzied love can do is done
by me. I advertise, I communicate with the police, I employ detectives;
but that fatal twelve days’ start for ever baffles me. Only on one
occasion do I obtain one tittle of information. In a village a few
miles from Lucerne the peasants, on the day in question, saw a carriage
driving rapidly through their little street. It was closed, but
through the windows they could see the occupants--a dark gentleman,
with the peculiar physiognomy which has been so often described, and
on the opposite seat a lady lying apparently in a state of utter
insensibility. But even this leads to nothing.

Oh, reader, these things happened twenty years ago; since then I have
searched sea and land, but never have I seen my little Elizabeth again.
