THE DOLL'S GHOST

It was a terrible accident, and for one moment the splendid machinery of
Cranston House got out of gear and stood still. The butler emerged from
the retirement in which he spent his elegant leisure, two grooms of the
chambers appeared simultaneously from opposite directions, there were
actually housemaids on the grand staircase, and those who remember the
facts most exactly assert that Mrs. Pringle herself positively stood
upon the landing. Mrs. Pringle was the housekeeper. As for the head
nurse, the under nurse, and the nursery maid, their feelings cannot be
described. The head nurse laid one hand upon the polished marble
balustrade and stared stupidly before her, the under nurse stood rigid
and pale, leaning against the polished marble wall, and the nursery-maid
collapsed and sat down upon the polished marble step, just beyond the
limits of the velvet carpet, and frankly burst into tears.

The Lady Gwendolen Lancaster-Douglas-Scroop, youngest daughter of the
ninth Duke of Cranston, and aged six years and three months, picked
herself up quite alone, and sat down on the third step from the foot of
the grand staircase in Cranston House.

"Oh!" ejaculated the butler, and he disappeared again.

"Ah!" responded the grooms of the chambers, as they also went away.

"It's only that doll," Mrs. Pringle was distinctly heard to say, in a
tone of contempt.

The under nurse heard her say it. Then the three nurses gathered round
Lady Gwendolen and patted her, and gave her unhealthy things out of
their pockets, and hurried her out of Cranston House as fast as they
could, lest it should be found out upstairs that they had allowed the
Lady Gwendolen Lancaster-Douglas-Scroop to tumble down the grand
staircase with her doll in her arms. And as the doll was badly broken,
the nursery-maid carried it, with the pieces, wrapped up in Lady
Gwendolen's little cloak. It was not far to Hyde Park, and when they had
reached a quiet place they took means to find out that Lady Gwendolen
had no bruises. For the carpet was very thick and soft, and there was
thick stuff under it to make it softer.

Lady Gwendolen Douglas-Scroop sometimes yelled, but she never cried. It
was because she had yelled that the nurse had allowed her to go
downstairs alone with Nina, the doll, under one arm, while she steadied
herself with her other hand on the balustrade, and trod upon the
polished marble steps beyond the edge of the carpet. So she had fallen,
and Nina had come to grief.

When the nurses were quite sure that she was not hurt, they unwrapped
the doll and looked at her in her turn. She had been a very beautiful
doll, very large, and fair, and healthy, with real yellow hair, and
eyelids that would open and shut over very grown-up dark eyes. Moreover,
when you moved her right arm up and down she said "Pa-pa," and when you
moved the left she said "Ma-ma," very distinctly.

"I heard her say 'Pa' when she fell," said the under nurse, who heard
everything. "But she ought to have said 'Pa-pa.'"

"That's because her arm went up when she hit the step," said the head
nurse. "She'll say the other 'Pa' when I put it down again."

"Pa," said Nina, as her right arm was pushed down, and speaking through
her broken face. It was cracked right across, from the upper corner of
the forehead, with a hideous gash, through the nose and down to the
little frilled collar of the pale green silk Mother Hubbard frock, and
two little three-cornered pieces of porcelain had fallen out.

"I'm sure it's a wonder she can speak at all, being all smashed," said
the under nurse.

"You'll have to take her to Mr. Puckler," said her superior. "It's not
far, and you'd better go at once."

Lady Gwendolen was occupied in digging a hole in the ground with a
little spade, and paid no attention to the nurses.

"What are you doing?" enquired the nursery-maid, looking on.

"Nina's dead, and I'm diggin' her a grave," replied her ladyship
thoughtfully.

"Oh, she'll come to life again all right," said the nursery-maid.

The under nurse wrapped Nina up again and departed. Fortunately a kind
soldier, with very long legs and a very small cap, happened to be there;
and as he had nothing to do, he offered to see the under nurse safely to
Mr. Puckler's and back.

Mr. Bernard Puckler and his little daughter lived in a little house in a
little alley, which led out off a quiet little street not very far from
Belgrave Square. He was the great doll doctor, and his extensive
practice lay in the most aristocratic quarter. He mended dolls of all
sizes and ages, boy dolls and girl dolls, baby dolls in long clothes,
and grown-up dolls in fashionable gowns, talking dolls and dumb dolls,
those that shut their eyes when they lay down, and those whose eyes had
to be shut for them by means of a mysterious wire. His daughter Else was
only just over twelve years old, but she was already very clever at
mending dolls' clothes, and at doing their hair, which is harder than
you might think, though the dolls sit quite still while it is being
done.

Mr. Puckler had originally been a German, but he had dissolved his
nationality in the ocean of London many years ago, like a great many
foreigners. He still had one or two German friends, however, who came on
Saturday evenings, and smoked with him and played picquet or "skat" with
him for farthing points, and called him "Herr Doctor," which seemed to
please Mr. Puckler very much.

He looked older than he was, for his beard was rather long and ragged,
his hair was grizzled and thin, and he wore horn-rimmed spectacles. As
for Else, she was a thin, pale child, very quiet and neat, with dark
eyes and brown hair that was plaited down her back and tied with a bit
of black ribbon. She mended the dolls' clothes and took the dolls back
to their homes when they were quite strong again.

The house was a little one, but too big for the two people who lived in
it. There was a small sitting-room on the street, and the workshop was
at the back, and there were three rooms upstairs. But the father and
daughter lived most of their time in the workshop, because they were
generally at work, even in the evenings.

Mr. Puckler laid Nina on the table and looked at her a long time, till
the tears began to fill his eyes behind the horn-rimmed spectacles. He
was a very susceptible man, and he often fell in love with the dolls he
mended, and found it hard to part with them when they had smiled at him
for a few days. They were real little people to him, with characters and
thoughts and feelings of their own, and he was very tender with them
all. But some attracted him especially from the first, and when they
were brought to him maimed and injured, their state seemed so pitiful to
him that the tears came easily. You must remember that he had lived
among dolls during a great part of his life, and understood them.

"How do you know that they feel nothing?" he went on to say to Else.
"You must be gentle with them. It costs nothing to be kind to the little
beings, and perhaps it makes a difference to them."

And Else understood him, because she was a child, and she knew that she
was more to him than all the dolls.

He fell in love with Nina at first sight, perhaps because her beautiful
brown glass eyes were something like Else's own, and he loved Else first
and best, with all his heart. And, besides, it was a very sorrowful
case. Nina had evidently not been long in the world, for her complexion
was perfect, her hair was smooth where it should be smooth, and curly
where it should be curly, and her silk clothes were perfectly new. But
across her face was that frightful gash, like a sabre-cut, deep and
shadowy within, but clean and sharp at the edges. When he tenderly
pressed her head to close the gaping wound, the edges made a fine
grating sound, that was painful to hear, and the lids of the dark eyes
quivered and trembled as though Nina were suffering dreadfully.

"Poor Nina!" he exclaimed sorrowfully. "But I shall not hurt you much,
though you will take a long time to get strong."

He always asked the names of the broken dolls when they were brought to
him, and sometimes the people knew what the children called them, and
told him. He liked "Nina" for a name. Altogether and in every way she
pleased him more than any doll he had seen for many years, and he felt
drawn to her, and made up his mind to make her perfectly strong and
sound, no matter how much labour it might cost him.

Mr. Puckler worked patiently a little at a time, and Else watched him.
She could do nothing for poor Nina, whose clothes needed no mending. The
longer the doll doctor worked, the more fond he became of the yellow
hair and the beautiful brown glass eyes. He sometimes forgot all the
other dolls that were waiting to be mended, lying side by side on a
shelf, and sat for an hour gazing at Nina's face, while he racked his
ingenuity for some new invention by which to hide even the smallest
trace of the terrible accident.

She was wonderfully mended. Even he was obliged to admit that; but the
scar was still visible to his keen eyes, a very fine line right across
the face, downwards from right to left. Yet all the conditions had been
most favourable for a cure, since the cement had set quite hard at the
first attempt and the weather had been fine and dry, which makes a great
difference in a dolls' hospital.

At last he knew that he could do no more, and the under nurse had
already come twice to see whether the job was finished, as she coarsely
expressed it.

"Nina is not quite strong yet," Mr. Puckler had answered each time, for
he could not make up his mind to face the parting.

And now he sat before the square deal table at which he worked, and Nina
lay before him for the last time with a big brown paper box beside her.
It stood there like her coffin, waiting for her, he thought. He must put
her into it, and lay tissue paper over her dear face, and then put on
the lid, and at the thought of tying the string his sight was dim with
tears again. He was never to look into the glassy depths of the
beautiful brown eyes any more, nor to hear the little wooden voice say
"Pa-pa" and "Ma-ma." It was a very painful moment.

In the vain hope of gaining time before the separation, he took up the
little sticky bottles of cement and glue and gum and colour, looking at
each one in turn, and then at Nina's face. And all his small tools lay
there, neatly arranged in a row, but he knew that he could not use them
again for Nina. She was quite strong at last, and in a country where
there should be no cruel children to hurt her she might live a hundred
years, with only that almost imperceptible line across her face to tell
of the fearful thing that had befallen her on the marble steps of
Cranston House.

Suddenly Mr. Puckler's heart was quite full, and he rose abruptly from
his seat and turned away.

"Else," he said unsteadily, "you must do it for me. I cannot bear to see
her go into the box."

So he went and stood at the window with his back turned, while Else did
what he had not the heart to do.

"Is it done?" he asked, not turning round. "Then take her away, my dear.
Put on your hat, and take her to Cranston House quickly, and when you
are gone I will turn round."

Else was used to her father's queer ways with the dolls, and though she
had never seen him so much moved by a parting, she was not much
surprised.

"Come back quickly," he said, when he heard her hand on the latch. "It
is growing late, and I should not send you at this hour. But I cannot
bear to look forward to it any more."

When Else was gone, he left the window and sat down in his place before
the table again, to wait for the child to come back. He touched the
place where Nina had lain, very gently, and he recalled the softly
tinted pink face, and the glass eyes, and the ringlets of yellow hair,
till he could almost see them.

The evenings were long, for it was late in the spring. But it began to
grow dark soon, and Mr. Puckler wondered why Else did not come back. She
had been gone an hour and a half, and that was much longer than he had
expected, for it was barely half a mile from Belgrave Square to Cranston
House. He reflected that the child might have been kept waiting, but as
the twilight deepened he grew anxious, and walked up and down in the dim
workshop, no longer thinking of Nina, but of Else, his own living child,
whom he loved.

An undefinable, disquieting sensation came upon him by fine degrees, a
chilliness and a faint stirring of his thin hair, joined with a wish to
be in any company rather than to be alone much longer. It was the
beginning of fear.

He told himself in strong German-English that he was a foolish old man,
and he began to feel about for the matches in the dusk. He knew just
where they should be, for he always kept them in the same place, close
to the little tin box that held bits of sealing-wax of various colours,
for some kinds of mending. But somehow he could not find the matches in
the gloom.

Something had happened to Else, he was sure, and as his fear increased,
he felt as though it might be allayed if he could get a light and see
what time it was. Then he called himself a foolish old man again, and
the sound of his own voice startled him in the dark. He could not find
the matches.

The window was grey still; he might see what time it was if he went
close to it, and he could go and get matches out of the cupboard
afterwards. He stood back from the table, to get out of the way of the
chair, and began to cross the board floor.

Something was following him in the dark. There was a small pattering, as
of tiny feet upon the boards. He stopped and listened, and the roots of
his hair tingled. It was nothing, and he was a foolish old man. He made
two steps more, and he was sure that he heard the little pattering
again. He turned his back to the window, leaning against the sash so
that the panes began to crack, and he faced the dark. Everything was
quite still, and it smelt of paste and cement and wood-filings as usual.

"Is that you, Else?" he asked, and he was surprised by the fear in his
voice.

There was no answer in the room, and he held up his watch and tried to
make out what time it was by the grey dusk that was just not darkness.
So far as he could see, it was within two or three minutes of ten
o'clock. He had been a long time alone. He was shocked, and frightened
for Else, out in London, so late, and he almost ran across the room to
the door. As he fumbled for the latch, he distinctly heard the running
of the little feet after him.

"Mice!" he exclaimed feebly, just as he got the door open.

He shut it quickly behind him, and felt as though some cold thing had
settled on his back and were writhing upon him. The passage was quite
dark, but he found his hat and was out in the alley in a moment,
breathing more freely, and surprised to find how much light there still
was in the open air. He could see the pavement clearly under his feet,
and far off in the street to which the alley led he could hear the
laughter and calls of children, playing some game out of doors. He
wondered how he could have been so nervous, and for an instant he
thought of going back into the house to wait quietly for Else. But
instantly he felt that nervous fright of something stealing over him
again. In any case it was better to walk up to Cranston House and ask
the servants about the child. One of the women had perhaps taken a fancy
to her, and was even now giving her tea and cake.

He walked quickly to Belgrave Square, and then up the broad streets,
listening as he went, whenever there was no other sound, for the tiny
footsteps. But he heard nothing, and was laughing at himself when he
rang the servants' bell at the big house. Of course, the child must be
there.

The person who opened the door was quite an inferior person, for it was
a back door, but affected the manners of the front, and stared at Mr.
Puckler superciliously under the strong light.

No little girl had been seen, and he knew "nothing about no dolls."

"She is my little girl," said Mr. Puckler tremulously, for all his
anxiety was returning tenfold, "and I am afraid something has happened."

The inferior person said rudely that "nothing could have happened to her
in that house, because she had not been there, which was a jolly good
reason why;" and Mr. Puckler was obliged to admit that the man ought to
know, as it was his business to keep the door and let people in. He
wished to be allowed to speak to the under nurse, who knew him; but the
man was ruder than ever, and finally shut the door in his face.

When the doll doctor was alone in the street, he steadied himself by the
railing, for he felt as though he were breaking in two, just as some
dolls break, in the middle of the backbone.

Presently he knew that he must be doing something to find Else, and that
gave him strength. He began to walk as quickly as he could through the
streets, following every highway and byway which his little girl might
have taken on her errand. He also asked several policemen in vain if
they had seen her, and most of them answered him kindly, for they saw
that he was a sober man and in his right senses, and some of them had
little girls of their own.

It was one o'clock in the morning when he went up to his own door
again, worn out and hopeless and broken-hearted. As he turned the key in
the lock, his heart stood still, for he knew that he was awake and not
dreaming, and that he really heard those tiny footsteps pattering to
meet him inside the house along the passage.

But he was too unhappy to be much frightened any more, and his heart
went on again with a dull regular pain, that found its way all through
him with every pulse. So he went in, and hung up his hat in the dark,
and found the matches in the cupboard and the candlestick in its place
in the corner.

Mr. Puckler was so much overcome and so completely worn out that he sat
down in his chair before the work-table and almost fainted, as his face
dropped forward upon his folded hands. Beside him the solitary candle
burned steadily with a low flame in the still warm air.

"Else! Else!" he moaned against his yellow knuckles. And that was all he
could say, and it was no relief to him. On the contrary, the very sound
of the name was a new and sharp pain that pierced his ears and his head
and his very soul. For every time he repeated the name it meant that
little Else was dead, somewhere out in the streets of London in the
dark.

He was so terribly hurt that he did not even feel something pulling
gently at the skirt of his old coat, so gently that it was like the
nibbling of a tiny mouse. He might have thought that it was really a
mouse if he had noticed it.

"Else! Else!" he groaned right against his hands.

Then a cool breath stirred his thin hair, and the low flame of the one
candle dropped down almost to a mere spark, not flickering as though a
draught were going to blow it out, but just dropping down as if it were
tired out. Mr. Puckler felt his hands stiffening with fright under his
face; and there was a faint rustling sound, like some small silk thing
blown in a gentle breeze. He sat up straight, stark and scared, and a
small wooden voice spoke in the stillness.

"Pa-pa," it said, with a break between the syllables.

Mr. Puckler stood up in a single jump, and his chair fell over backwards
with a smashing noise upon the wooden floor. The candle had almost gone
out.

It was Nina's doll voice that had spoken, and he should have known it
among the voices of a hundred other dolls. And yet there was something
more in it, a little human ring, with a pitiful cry and a call for help,
and the wail of a hurt child. Mr. Puckler stood up, stark and stiff, and
tried to look round, but at first he could not, for he seemed to be
frozen from head to foot.

Then he made a great effort, and he raised one hand to each of his
temples, and pressed his own head round as he would have turned a
doll's. The candle was burning so low that it might as well have been
out altogether, for any light it gave, and the room seemed quite dark at
first. Then he saw something. He would not have believed that he could
be more frightened than he had been just before that. But he was, and
his knees shook, for he saw the doll standing in the middle of the
floor, shining with a faint and ghostly radiance, her beautiful glassy
brown eyes fixed on his. And across her face the very thin line of the
break he had mended shone as though it were drawn in light with a fine
point of white flame.

Yet there was something more in the eyes, too; there was something
human, like Else's own, but as if only the doll saw him through them,
and not Else. And there was enough of Else to bring back all his pain
and to make him forget his fear.

"Else! my little Else!" he cried aloud.

The small ghost moved, and its doll-arm slowly rose and fell with a
stiff, mechanical motion.

"Pa-pa," it said.

It seemed this time that there was even more of Else's tone echoing
somewhere between the wooden notes that reached his ears so distinctly,
and yet so far away. Else was calling him, he was sure.

His face was perfectly white in the gloom, but his knees did not shake
any more, and he felt that he was less frightened.

"Yes, child! But where? Where?" he asked. "Where are you, Else?"

"Pa-pa!"

The syllables died away in the quiet room. There was a low rustling of
silk, the glassy brown eyes turned slowly away, and Mr. Puckler heard
the pitter-patter of the small feet in the bronze kid slippers as the
figure ran straight to the door. Then the candle burned high again, the
room was full of light, and he was alone.

Mr. Puckler passed his hand over his eyes and looked about him. He could
see everything quite clearly, and he felt that he must have been
dreaming, though he was standing instead of sitting down, as he should
have been if he had just waked up. The candle burned brightly now. There
were the dolls to be mended, lying in a row with their toes up. The
third one had lost her right shoe, and Else was making one. He knew
that, and he was certainly not dreaming now. He had not been dreaming
when he had come in from his fruitless search and had heard the doll's
footsteps running to the door. He had not fallen asleep in his chair.
How could he possibly have fallen asleep when his heart was breaking? He
had been awake all the time.

He steadied himself, set the fallen chair upon its legs, and said to
himself again very emphatically that he was a foolish old man. He ought
to be out in the streets looking for his child, asking questions, and
enquiring at the police stations, where all accidents were reported as
soon as they were known, or at the hospitals.

"Pa-pa!"

The longing, wailing, pitiful little wooden cry rang from the passage,
outside the door, and Mr. Puckler stood for an instant with white face,
transfixed and rooted to the spot. A moment later his hand was on the
latch. Then he was in the passage, with the light streaming from the
open door behind him.

Quite at the other end he saw the little phantom shining clearly in the
shadow, and the right hand seemed to beckon to him as the arm rose and
fell once more. He knew all at once that it had not come to frighten him
but to lead him, and when it disappeared, and he walked boldly towards
the door, he knew that it was in the street outside, waiting for him. He
forgot that he was tired and had eaten no supper, and had walked many
miles, for a sudden hope ran through and through him, like a golden
stream of life.

And sure enough, at the corner of the alley, and at the corner of the
street, and out in Belgrave Square, he saw the small ghost flitting
before him. Sometimes it was only a shadow, where there was other light,
but then the glare of the lamps made a pale green sheen on its little
Mother Hubbard frock of silk; and sometimes, where the streets were dark
and silent, the whole figure shone out brightly, with its yellow curls
and rosy neck. It seemed to trot along like a tiny child, and Mr.
Puckler could almost hear the pattering of the bronze kid slippers on
the pavement as it ran. But it went very fast, and he could only just
keep up with it, tearing along with his hat on the back of his head and
his thin hair blown by the night breeze, and his horn-rimmed spectacles
firmly set upon his broad nose.

On and on he went, and he had no idea where he was. He did not even
care, for he knew certainly that he was going the right way.

Then at last, in a wide, quiet street, he was standing before a big,
sober-looking door that had two lamps on each side of it, and a polished
brass bell-handle, which he pulled.

And just inside, when the door was opened, in the bright light, there
was the little shadow, and the pale green sheen of the little silk
dress, and once more the small cry came to his ears, less pitiful, more
longing.

"Pa-pa!"

The shadow turned suddenly bright, and out of the brightness the
beautiful brown glass eyes were turned up happily to his, while the rosy
mouth smiled so divinely that the phantom doll looked almost like a
little angel just then.

"A little girl was brought in soon after ten o'clock," said the quiet
voice of the hospital doorkeeper. "I think they thought she was only
stunned. She was holding a big brown-paper box against her, and they
could not get it out of her arms. She had a long plait of brown hair
that hung down as they carried her."

"She is my little girl," said Mr. Puckler, but he hardly heard his own
voice.

He leaned over Else's face in the gentle light of the children's ward,
and when he had stood there a minute the beautiful brown eyes opened and
looked up to his.

"Pa-pa!" cried Else, softly, "I knew you would come!"

Then Mr. Puckler did not know what he did or said for a moment, and what
he felt was worth all the fear and terror and despair that had almost
killed him that night. But by and by Else was telling her story, and the
nurse let her speak, for there were only two other children in the room,
who were getting well and were sound asleep.

"They were big boys with bad faces," said Else, "and they tried to get
Nina away from me, but I held on and fought as well as I could till one
of them hit me with something, and I don't remember any more, for I
tumbled down, and I suppose the boys ran away, and somebody found me
there. But I'm afraid Nina is all smashed."

"Here is the box," said the nurse. "We could not take it out of her arms
till she came to herself. Should you like to see if the doll is broken?"

And she undid the string cleverly, but Nina was all smashed to pieces.
Only the gentle light of the children's ward made a pale green sheen in
the folds of the little Mother Hubbard frock.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WANDERING GHOSTS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performanc
