The Apparition of the Prior of Pittenweem.

It was in September 1875 that I first met dear old Captain Chester (now
gone to his rest); and it was very many years before that date that he
rented his fearsomely haunted old house in St Andrews.

I was a Cambridge boy when I met him—how the undergraduates scorn that
term “boy.” He told me the following queer tales in the Poppledorf Avenue
at Bonn when I was on holiday.

The house he rented at St Andrews, from his accounts, must have been a
most unpleasant and eerie dwelling. Rappings and hammerings were heard
all over the house after nightfall, trembling of the walls, quiverings.
Heavy falls and ear-piercing shrieks were also part of the nightly
programme.

I suggested bats, rats, owls, and smugglers as the cause, which made
the old man perfectly wild with rage, and caused him to use most
unparliamentary language.

I pointed out that such language would probably have scared away any
respectable ghost. However, let me tell the story in his own peculiar way.

“My brother and I took the house, sir,” he said, “and we had a nephew and
some nieces with us. There were also three middle-aged English servants
at the time; and, gadsooth, sir, they had strange names. The cook
possessed the extraordinary name of Maria Trombone, the housemaid was
called Jemima Podge, and the other old cat was called Teresa Shadbolt.

“One evening I was sitting smoking in my study, when the door flew open
with a bang and Maria rushed in.

“‘Zounds! Mrs Trombone,’ I said, ‘how dare you come into my room like
this?’

“‘Well, sir,’ she said, ‘there are _hawful_ things going on to-night.
I’m _frighted_ to death. I was washing hup, please sir, when something
rushed passed me with a rustle, and I got a great smack on the cheek with
a damp, cold hand, and then the place shook, and all the things clattered
like anything.’

“‘Nonsense, Trombone,’ I said, ‘you were asleep, or have you been
drinking, eh?’

“‘Lor’ bless you, sir, no! never a drop; but last night, sir, Teresa
Shadbolt had all the bedclothes pulled off her bed twice, sir, and Jane
said a tall old man in a queer dressing-gown came into her room and
brushed his white beard over her face, and, lor’, sir, didn’t you hear
her a-screamin’?’

“‘No, I’m hanged if I did. You must all be stark, staring mad, you know.’

“‘Not a bit of us, master,’ continued Mrs Trombone. ‘There is something
wrong about this blessed house—locked doors and windows fly wide open,
and the bells keep ringin’ at all hours of the night, and we hear steps
on the stairs when everyone is in bed, and knocks, and crashes, and
screams. Then the tables and things go moving about. No Christian could
put up with it, please sir. _We must all leave_.’

“Well, I got all those women up, and they told me deuced queer things,
but I squared them up at last.”

“How?” I inquired.

“I doubled their wages, sir, and I told them they might all sleep in
one room upstairs together, and I promised them a real good blow-out at
Christmas, and so on.

“Next my nephew and little nieces saw the old man with the long white
beard at various times in the passages and on the stairs. Oddly enough,
my little nieces got quite accustomed to see the aged man with the grey
beard, and were not a bit timid. They said he was just like the pictures
of old Father Christmas, and he looked kind.

“I never saw him,” continued Chester, “till one All Hallows Night, or
Hallowe’en as they termed it in St Andrews; but I will speak of that
later on.”

“Go on,” I said, “it is very interesting indeed to me.”

“The servants all saw him at times, and that old arch fiend, Trombone,
was constantly getting frightened, and breaking things and fainting. I
was myself annoyed by strange unearthly sounds when sitting smoking at
night late. There were curious rollings and rumblings under the house,
like enormous stone balls being bowled along, then a heavy thud followed
by intolerable silence. Then there was a curious sound like muffled
blinds being quickly drawn up and down; that and a sort of flapping and
rustling seemed to pervade the air.

“This perplexed me, and I got in a detective; but he found out nothing at
all. After much trouble and research I learned of the legend of the Prior
of Pittenweem and his connection with the old house.

“It seems when Moray and his gang of plunderers shut up St Monance Church
and the old Priory of Pittenweem, the last Prior (not Forman or Rowles),
a very old man, was cut adrift, and for some months lay hidden at Newark
Castle, food being brought him by some former monks. Newark Castle was
burned, and this old Prior fled to Balcomie Castle. From there he went to
Kinkell Cave near St Andrews.

“I know all those places well,” I said.

“After some weeks, and when winter came, he took refuge in the very old
house in which I lived. He seems to have been among both friends and foes
there, and brawls were quite common things within those walls.

“One night those long dead and forgotten old-world inhabitants were
startled from their slumbers by shots, the clashing of arms, and wild
yells. To make a long tale short, that old Prior of Pittenweem was never
seen by human eyes after that fearful night.

“Many suspected foul play, but in those times it was deemed best to
keep one’s mouth shut tight, and what mattered it if an old Prior
disappeared?”

“They were awful times those,” I said. “Glad we live in these days.”

“Well, now,” said the Captain, “I must come to the night of All Hallows
E’en, or Holy Even, when the spirits of the night are said to wander
abroad. We dined early in those days, and after dinner I walked down to
an old Clubhouse in Golf Place, of which I was an hon. member, to play
cards. It was a perfect night, and a few flakes of snow had begun to
fall, and the wind was keen and sharp. When I left the Club later the
ground was well covered with snow, but the storm had ceased, and the moon
and stars were shining bright in a clear sky. By Jove, sir, it was like
fairyland, and all the church towers and house tops were glittering in
the moonbeams.

“I wandered about the old place for fully an hour. It was lovely. I
was reluctant to go indoors. Gad, sir, I got quite sad and poetical. I
thought of my poor sister who died long ago and is buried in Stefano
Rodundo at Rome, and lots of other things. Then I thought of St Andrews
as it is and what it might have been. I thought of all its holy temples,
erected by our pious forefathers, and its altars and statues lying
desolate, ruined and profaned.

“At last I arrived at my own door, and entered—in a thoughtful mood. I
went to my study and put on my slippers and dressing gown. I had just sat
down and commenced reading when there came a most tremendous shivering
crash. I involuntarily cowered down. I thought the roof had fallen—at
least, gad, sir, I was flabbergasted. It woke everyone. The crash was
followed by a roaring sound.”

“It must have been an earthquake, Captain Chester,” I said.

“Zounds, sir, I don’t know what it was. I thought I was killed. Then my
nephew and I got a lamp and examined the house.

“Everything was right—nothing to account for the fearful noise. Finally,
we went downstairs to the vaulted kitchens. Zounds, sir, all of a sudden
my nephew gripped my arm, and with a cry of abject terror pointed to the
open kitchen door. ‘Oh, look there, look there!’ he almost screamed.

“I looked, and, gad, I got a queer turn. There facing us in the open
doorway was a very tall, shaven-headed old man with a long grey beard. He
had a white robe or cassock on, a linen rocket, and, above all, an almuce
or cloak of black hue lined with ermine--_The Augustinian Habit_. In one
hand he held a very large rosary, and he lent on a stout cudgel.

“As I advanced he retreated backwards, always beckoning to me—and I
followed lamp in hand. I _had_ to follow—could not help myself. Do you
know the way a serpent can fascinate or hypnotise its prey before it
devours them?”

“Yes,” I said, “I have seen the snakes at the Zoo do that trick.”

“Well, sir, I was hypnotised like that—precisely like that. He beckoned
and I followed.

“Suddenly I saw a little door in the corner of the kitchen standing
open—a door I had never noticed before. The shadowy vision backed towards
it. Still I followed. Then he entered its portals. As I advanced he grew
more and more transparent, and finally melted away, and the heavy door
shut upon him with a tremendous crash and rattle. The lamp fell from my
trembling hand and was shattered to fragments on the stone floor. I was
in pitch darkness—silence reigned—I don’t remember how I got out to the
light again.

“Next morning early I got in some workmen and took them down to the
kitchen, direct to the corner where the door was through which the
apparition vanished the previous night.

“Zounds, sir, there was _no door there_—only the white plastered wall. I
was dumbfoundered. ‘Mrs Trombone,’ I said to the cook, ‘where the devil
is that door gone?’”

“‘The door, sir,’ said the cook, ‘there ain’t no door there that I ever
saw.’

“‘Trombone,’ I replied, ‘don’t tell falsehoods—you’re a fool.’

“I made the men set to work and tear down the plaster and stuff, and,
egad, sir, in an hour we found the door—a thick oak, nail studded, iron
clamped old door. It took some time to force it open, and then down three
steps we found ourselves in a chamber with mighty thick walls and with a
flagged floor, about six feet square, lit by a small slit of a window.

“‘Tear up the flags,’ I said.

“They did so, and there was only earth below.

“‘Dig down,’ I said, ‘dig like thunder,’

“In about an hour we came to a huge flag with a ring in it. Up it came,
and below it was a dryly-built bottle-shaped well.

“We went down with lights. What do you think we found at the bottom of
it?”

“Perhaps water,” I suggested.

“Water be d⸺,” said Captain Chester, “we found the mouldering skeleton
of a very tall man in a sitting posture. Beside him lay a large rosary
and a stout oak cudgel—the rosary and cudgel I had seen in the phantom’s
hands the previous night. My friend, I _had solved the problem_—that was
the skeleton of the old Prior of Pittenweem who vanished in that house
hundreds of years ago.”

[Illustration]

The True Tale of the Phantom Coach.

The great curtain had fallen after the pantomime, and I was standing
chatting on the stage of the theatre at Cambridge when one of the stage
men came to tell me I was wanted at the stage door and I must hurry up at
once. Thither I proceeded, and found a lot of golfing boys, hunting boys,
dramatic boys, and all sorts of other merry ’Varsity boys, who shouted
out “Come along quick to the Blue Pig” (the “Blue Pig” is a Cambridge
name for the Blue Boar Hotel), “we want you to meet a fellow called
Willie Carson, and there is to be supper, and he has something to tell
us. The ‘Bogie Man’ has gone on there now, so come right away.”

Well, off we went to the Blue Boar Hotel, and we found Carson sitting
over a blazing fire, with a capital supper set in his nice old-fashioned
room, lit up with candles only, the picture of comfort—outside it was
snowing hard and bitterly cold.

After a talk over the merits of the pantomime, we did full justice to a
most excellent supper, and then crowded round the blazing hearth to hear
a story our host wanted to tell us.

“Did you ever hear of the Phantom Coach at St Andrews?” he asked, turning
to me suddenly and removing his cigar.

“Often,” I replied, “I have heard most extraordinary yarns about it from
lots of people; but why do you ask?”

“Because _I’ve seen it_,” he replied, softly and thoughtfully. “Some
five years ago, it was very, very strange, not to be forgotten and quite
unexplainable; that is why I asked you here to-night. I wanted to talk to
you about it.” He stooped over the fire and was silent for a few minutes.

“Tell us all about it,” we all shouted at once, “we won’t make fun of
it.”

“There is nothing to make fun of; indeed, it’s a true, solemn fact,” he
said. “Listen, and I will try to tell you what I saw, but I can’t half
picture it properly. Five years ago I had just come home from America.
I went to stay at St Andrews for some golf. I think it was the latter
end of August, and I must have been in the town about a week at least,
when one night—it was hot and stuffy, and about midnight—I determined to
take a good long country walk, and struck out right along the road to
Strathkinness.

“It was a hot, dark, and stormy night, not wet; fitful black clouds
floated now and again at a rapid pace over the moon, which now and then
shone out brightly; in the distance the sea made a perpetual moan, and at
intervals the dark eastern sky was lit up by flashes of summer wildfire
lightning over the distant Cathedral towers.

“Now and again I could hear the mutter of far-away thunder, and there
were incessant gusts of wind. I must have been about two miles along the
road, when I could discern some very large object approaching me rapidly.
As it came nearer I noticed it resembled a coach, dark, heavy, primitive;
it seemed to have four large black horses, and the driver was a muffled,
shapeless figure. It approached with a low humming or buzzing sound,
which was most peculiar and unpleasant to hear. The horses made a hollow
kind of ticking sound with their feet, otherwise it was noiseless.

“No earthly coach of the kind could go without any ordinary sound. It
was weird and eerie in the extreme. As it passed me the moon shone out
brightly, and I saw for a second a ghastly white face at the coach
window; but I saw those four strange, silent black horses, the more
extraordinary, tall, swaddled-up shapeless driver, and the quaint black,
gloomy old coach, with a coffin-shaped box on the roof, only far, far too
well. One most remarkable thing was that it _threw no shadow_ of any kind.

“Just as it passed me there was a terrific roar of thunder, and a blaze
of lightning that nearly blinded me, and in the distance I saw that
horrible ghastly receding coach; then clouds came over the moon and all
was black—a darkness one could feel, a darkness of a shut-up smothering
vault. I felt sick and dazed for a minute or two. I could not make out
if I had been struck by the lightning or was paralysed. However, after a
bit it passed off; it was a horrible deathly feeling while it lasted. I
never experienced a similar sensation before or since, and hope I never
may again. Another very curious thing was the behaviour of my favourite
collie dog, usually frightened at nothing, on the approach of the phantom
(for phantom it was). He crouched down, shivering and whining, and as
it drew nearer fled with a bark like a screech, and cowered down in the
ditch at the roadside and gave forth low growls.

“I tell you, boys, it’s all right in this room to talk about it, but none
of you would have liked to be in my place that queer, uncanny night on
that lonely road. That it was supernatural, I am convinced; it is a very
thin veil between us and the unseen world of spirits.

“They say I possess a seventh sense, namely, second sight, and I know I
shall never forget that night’s experience.

“But listen—the story is not ended yet. Next morning a telegram arrived
from my brother in Kent, ‘Are you all right?’ I wondered much, and wired
back that I was very well.

“The following day a letter came from my brother giving me a curious
explanation.

“The following afternoon of the day I saw the coach, my brother was
looking out of the old manor house windows in Kent, when he and several
others noticed a large bird, having most peculiar plumage, seated on
the garden wall. No one had ever seen a bird of the kind before. He was
rushing off for a gun to shoot it, when our father, who looked very white
and scared, stopped him. ‘Do not shoot,’ he said, ‘it would be of no use.
That is the bird of ill omen to all our race, it only appears before a
death. I have only once seen it before—that week your dear mother died.’

“My brother was so alarmed at this that he sent the wire I have mentioned
to me at St Andrews. By the next mail from Australia we learned that our
eldest brother had died there the very day I saw the coach at St Andrews
and my brother saw the bird at our old home in Kent. Very odd, is it not;
but what do you know about that coach?”

“Only tales,” I said. “Many people swear they have heard it, or seen it,
on stormy nights. I know a girl who swears to it, and also a doctor who
passed it on the road, and it nearly frightened his horse to death and
him too.

“The tale of the two tramps is funny. They were trudging into St Andrews
one wild stormy night when this uncanny coach overtook them. It stopped;
the door opened, and a white hand beckoned towards them. One tramp rushed
up and got in, then suddenly the door noiselessly shut and the coach
moved off, leaving the other tramp alone in the pitiless wind and rain.
‘I never saw my old mate again,’ said the tramp, when he told the tale,
‘and I never shall—that there old coach was nothing of this here world of
ours, it took my old mate off to Davy Jones’s locker mighty smart, poor
fellow.’

“They say his body was found in the sea some months afterwards, and the
tale goes that the phantom coach finishes its nocturnal journey in the
waves of St Andrews Bay.”

“Whose coach is it?” asked all that were in the room.

“I cannot say; some say Bethune, others Sharpe, and others Hackston; I
do not know who is supposed to be the figure inside, unless it is his
Satanic Majesty himself. At all events, it seems a certain fact that
a phantom coach has been seen from time to time on the roads round St
Andrews. I have never seen any of these things myself.”

“Well,” said Carson, “that awful coach _does appear_; it appeared to
me, and, doubtless, in the course of time will appear to many others.
It bodes no one any good, and I pity with all my heart anyone who meets
it. Beware of those roads late at night, or, like me, you may some day
to your injury meet that ghastly, uncanny, old phantom coach. If so, you
will remember it to your dying day.”

“Curious thing that about seeing the coach and the bird at the same time,
and in two places so far apart,” murmured the golfing Johnny, “and then
Carson’s brother dying too.”

“I’d sooner see the bird than the coach,” said one.

“Guess I’d rather not see either of them,” said an American present,
“glad we have no phantom coaches in Yankeeland.”
