BEHOLD, IT WAS A DREAM!

BEHOLD, IT WAS A DREAM!

CHAPTER I.

Yesterday morning I received the following letter:

                                    “Weston House, Caulfield, ----shire.

  “MY DEAR DINAH,--You _must_ come: I scorn all your excuses, and see
  through their flimsiness. I have no doubt that you are much better
  amused in Dublin, frolicking round ball-rooms with a succession of
  horse-soldiers, and watching her Majesty’s household troops play
  Polo in the Phœnix Park, but no matter--you _must_ come. We have
  no particular inducements to hold out. We lead an exclusively
  bucolic, cow-milking, pig-fattening, roast-mutton-eating and
  to-bed-at-ten-o’clock-going life; but no matter--you _must_ come.
  I want you to see how happy two dull elderly people may be, with
  no special brightness in their lot to make them so. My old man--he
  is surprisingly ugly at the first glance, but grows upon one
  afterwards--sends you his respects, and bids me say that he will meet
  you at _any_ station on _any_ day at _any_ hour of the day or night.
  If you succeed in evading our persistence this time, you will be a
  cleverer woman than I take you for.

                                          “Ever yours affectionately,
                                                           “JANE WATSON.

  “_August 15th._

  “P.S.--We will invite our little scarlet-headed curate to dinner to
  meet you, so as to soften your fall from the society of the Plungers.”

This is my answer:

  “MY DEAR JANE,--Kill the fat calf in all haste, and put the bake
  meats into the oven, for I will come. Do not, however, imagine that
  I am moved thereunto by the prospect of the bright-headed curate.
  Believe me, my dear, I am as yet at a distance of ten long good years
  from an addiction to the minor clergy. If I survive the crossing of
  that seething, heaving, tumbling abomination, St. George’s Channel,
  you may expect me on Tuesday next. I have been groping for hours in
  ‘Bradshaw’s’ darkness that may be felt, and I have arrived at length
  at this twilight result, that I may arrive at your station at 6·55
  P.M. But the ways of ‘Bradshaw’ are not our ways, and I _may_ either
  rush violently past or never attain it. If I do, and if on my arrival
  I see some rustic vehicle, guided by a startlingly ugly gentleman,
  awaiting me, I shall know from your wifely description that it is
  your ‘old man.’ Till Tuesday, then,

                                            “Affectionately yours,
                                                        “DINAH BELLAIRS.

  “_August 17th._”

I am as good as my word; on Tuesday I set off. For four mortal hours
and a half I am disastrously, hideously, diabolically sick. For four
hours and a half I curse the day on which I was born, the day on which
Jane Watson was born, the day on which her old man was born, and
lastly--but oh! not, _not_ leastly--the day and the dock on which and
in which the _Leinster’s_ plunging, courtseying, throbbing body was
born. On arriving at Holyhead, feeling convinced from my sensations
that, as the French say, I touch my last hour, I indistinctly request
to be allowed to stay on board and _die_, then and there; but as the
stewardess and my maid take a different view of my situation, and
insist upon forcing my cloak and bonnet on my dying body and limp head,
I at length succeed in staggering on deck and off the accursed boat. I
am then well shaken up for two or three hours in the Irish mail, and
after crawling along a slow by-line for two or three hours more, am at
length, at 6·55, landed, battered, tired, dust-blacked, and qualmish,
at the little roadside station of Caulfield. My maid and I are the only
passengers who descend. The train snorts its slow way onwards, and I am
left gazing at the calm crimson death of the August sun, and smelling
the sweet-peas in the station-master’s garden border. I look round
in search of Jane’s promised tax-cart, and steel my nerves for the
contemplation of her old man’s unlovely features. But the only vehicle
which I see is a tiny two-wheeled pony carriage, drawn by a small
and tub-shaped bay pony and driven by a lady in a hat, whose face is
turned expectantly towards me. I go up and recognise my friend, whom I
have not seen for two years--not since before she fell in with her old
man and espoused him.

“I thought it safest, after all, to come myself,” she says with a
bright laugh. “My old man looked so handsome this morning, that I
thought you would never recognise him from my description. Get in,
dear, and let us trot home as quickly as we can.”

I comply, and for the next half hour sit (while the cool evening wind
is blowing the dust off my hot and jaded face) stealing amazed glances
at my companion’s cheery features. _Cheery!_ That is the very last
word that, excepting in an ironical sense, any one would have applied
to my friend Jane two years ago. Two years ago Jane was thirty-five,
the elderly eldest daughter of a large family, hustled into obscurity,
jostled, shelved, by half a dozen younger, fresher sisters; an
elderly girl addicted to lachrymose verse about the gone and the dead
and the for-ever-lost. Apparently the gone has come back, the dead
resuscitated, the for-ever-lost been found again. The peaky sour virgin
is transformed into a gracious matron, with a kindly, comely face,
pleasure making and pleasure feeling. Oh, Happiness, what powder, or
paste, or milk of roses, can make old cheeks young again in the cunning
way that you do? If you would but bide steadily with us we might live
for ever, always young and always handsome.

My musings on Jane’s metamorphosis, combined with a tired headache,
make me somewhat silent, and indeed there is mostly a slackness of
conversation between the two dearest allies on first meeting after
absence--a sort of hesitating shiver before plunging into the sea of
talk that both know lie in readiness for them.

“Have you got your harvest in yet?” I ask, more for the sake of not
utterly holding my tongue than from any profound interest in the
subject, as we jog briskly along between the yellow cornfields, where
the dry bound sheaves are standing in golden rows in the red sunset
light.

“Not yet,” answers Jane; “we have only just begun to cut some of it.
However, thank God, the weather looks as settled as possible; there is
not a streak of watery lilac in the west.”

My headache is almost gone and I am beginning to think kindly of
dinner--a subject from which all day until now my mind has hastily
turned with a sensation of hideous inward revolt--by the time that the
fat pony pulls up before the old-world dark porch of a modest little
house, which has bashfully hidden its original face under a veil of
crowded clematis flowers and stalwart ivy. Set as in a picture-frame
by the large drooped ivy-leaves, I see a tall and moderately
hard-featured gentleman of middle age, perhaps, of the two, rather
inclining towards elderly, smiling at us a little shyly.

“This is my old man,” cries Jane, stepping gaily out, and giving him a
friendly introductory pat on the shoulder. “Old man, this is Dinah.”

Having thus been made known to each other we shake hands, but neither
of us can arrive at anything pretty to say. Then I follow Jane into her
little house, the little house for which she has so happily exchanged
her tenth part of the large and noisy paternal mansion. It is an old
house, and everything about it has the moderate shabbiness of old age
and long and careful wear. Little thick-walled rooms, dark and cool,
with flowers and flower scents lying in wait for you everywhere--a
silent, fragrant, childless house. To me, who have had oily locomotives
snorting and racing through my head all day, its dumb sweetness seems
like heaven.

“And now that we have secured you, we do not mean to let you go in
a hurry,” says Jane hospitably that night at bedtime, lighting the
candles on my dressing-table.

“You are determined to make my mouth water, I see,” say I, interrupting
a yawn to laugh. “Lone lorn me, who have neither old man nor dear
little house, nor any prospect of ultimately attaining either.”

“But if you honestly are not bored you will stay with us a good bit?”
she says, laying her hand with kind entreaty on my sleeve. “St.
George’s Channel is not lightly to be faced again.”

“Perhaps I shall stay until you are obliged to go away yourselves to
get rid of me,” return I, smiling. “Such things have happened. Yes,
without joking, I will stay a month. Then, by the end of a month, if
you have not found me out thoroughly, I think I may pass among men for
a more amiable woman than I have ever yet had the reputation of.”

A quarter of an hour later I am laying down my head among soft and
snow-white pillows, and saying to myself that this delicious sensation
of utter drowsy repose, of soft darkness and odorous quiet, is cheaply
purchased even by the ridiculous anguish which my own sufferings,
and--hardly less than my own sufferings--the demoniac sights and sounds
afforded by my fellow-passengers, caused me on board the accursed
_Leinster_--

  “Built in the eclipse, and rigged with curses dark.”

CHAPTER II.

“Well, I cannot say that you look much rested,” says Jane next morning,
coming in to greet me, smiling and fresh--(yes, sceptic of eighteen,
even a woman of thirty-seven may look fresh in a print gown on an
August morning, when she has a well of lasting quiet happiness inside
her)--coming in with a bunch of creamy _gloire de Dijons_ in her hand
for the breakfast table. “You look infinitely more fagged than you did
when I left you last night!”

“Do I?” say I, rather faintly.

“I am afraid you did not sleep much?” suggests Jane, a little
crestfallen at the insult to her feather beds implied by my
wakefulness. “Some people never can sleep the first night in a strange
bed, and I stupidly forgot to ask whether you liked the feather bed or
mattress at the top.”

“Yes, I did sleep,” I answer gloomily. “I wish to heaven I had not!”

“Wish--to--heaven--you--had--not?” repeats Jane slowly, with a slight
astonished pause between each word. “My dear child, for what other
purpose did you go to bed?”

“I--I--had bad dreams,” say I, shuddering a little and then taking her
hand, roses and all, in mine. “Dear Jane, do not think me quite run
mad, but--but--have you got a ‘Bradshaw’ in the house?”

“A ‘Bradshaw?’ What on earth do you want with ‘Bradshaw?’” says my
hostess, her face lengthening considerably and a slight tincture of
natural coldness coming into her tone.

“I know it seems rude--insultingly rude,” say I, still holding her hand
and speaking almost lachrymosely: “but do you know, my dear, I really
am afraid that--that--I shall have to leave you--to-day?”

“To leave us?” repeats she, withdrawing her hand and growing angrily
red. “What! when not twenty-four hours ago you settled to stay _a
month_ with us? What have we done between then and now to disgust you
with us?”

“Nothing--nothing,” cry I, eagerly; “how can you suggest such a thing?
I never had a kinder welcome nor ever saw a place that charmed me more;
but--but----”

“But what?” asks Jane, her colour subsiding and looking a little
mollified.

“It is best to tell the truth, I suppose,” say I, sighing, “even though
I know that you will laugh at me--will call me vapourish--sottishly
superstitious; but I had an awful and hideous dream last night.”

“Is that all?” she says, looking relieved, and beginning to arrange
her roses in an old china bowl. “And do you think that all dreams are
confined to this house? I never heard before of their affecting any
one special place more than another. Perhaps no sooner are you back in
Dublin, in your own room and your own bed, than you will have a still
worse and uglier one.”

I shake my head. “But it was about this house--about _you_.”

“About _me_?” she says, with an accent of a little aroused interest.

“About you and your husband,” I answer earnestly. “Shall I tell it you?
Whether you say ‘Yes’ or ‘No’ I must. Perhaps it came as a warning;
such things have happened. Yes, say what you will, I cannot believe
that any vision so consistent--so tangibly real and utterly free from
the jumbled incongruities and unlikelinesses of ordinary dreams--could
have meant nothing. Shall I begin?”

“By all means,” answers Mrs. Watson, sitting down in an arm-chair and
smiling easily. “I am quite prepared to listen--and _dis_believe.”

“You know,” say I, narratively, coming and standing close before her,
“how utterly tired out I was when you left me last night. I could
hardly answer your questions for yawning. I do not think that I was
ten minutes in getting into bed, and it seemed like heaven when I laid
my head down on the pillow. I felt as if I should sleep till the Day
of Judgment. Well, you know, when one is asleep one has of course no
measure of time, and I have no idea what hour it was _really_; but
at some time, in the blackest and darkest of the night, I seemed to
wake. It appeared as if a noise had woke me--a noise which at first
neither frightened nor surprised me in the least, but which seemed
quite natural, and which I accounted for in the muddled drowsy way in
which one does account for things when half asleep. But as I gradually
grew to fuller consciousness I found out, with a cold shudder, that
the noise I heard was not one that belonged to the night; nothing that
one could lay on wind in the chimney, or mice behind the wainscot, or
ill-fitting boards. It was a sound of muffled struggling, and once I
heard a sort of choked strangled cry. I sat up in bed, perfectly numbed
with fright, and for a moment could hear nothing for the singing of
the blood in my head, and the loud battering of my heart against my
side. Then I thought that if it were anything bad--if I were going to
be murdered--I had at least rather be in the light than the dark, and
see in what sort of shape my fate was coming, so I slid out of bed and
threw my dressing-gown over my shoulders. I had stupidly forgotten, in
my weariness, over night, to put the matches by the bedside, and could
not for the life of me recollect where they were. Also, my knowledge
of the geography of the room was so small that in the utter blackness,
without even the palest, grayest ray from the window to help me, I was
by no means sure in which direction the door lay. I can feel _now_ the
pain of the blow I gave this right side against the sharp corner of the
table in passing; I was quite surprised this morning not to find the
mark of a bruise there. At last, in my groping, I came upon the handle
and turned the key in the lock. It gave a little squeak, and again I
stopped for a moment, overcome by ungovernable fear. Then I silently
opened the door and looked out. You know that your door is exactly
opposite mine. By the line of red light underneath it, I could see that
at all events some one was awake and astir within, for the light was
brighter than that given by a night-light. By the broader band of red
light on the right side of it I could also perceive that the door was
ajar. I stood stock still and listened. The two sounds of struggling
and chokedly crying had both ceased. All the noise that remained was
that as of some person quietly moving about on unbooted feet. ‘Perhaps
Jane’s dog Smut is ill and she is sitting up with it; she was saying
last night, I remember, that she was afraid it was beginning with the
distemper. Perhaps either she or her old man have been taken with some
trifling temporary sickness. Perhaps the noise of crying out that I
certainly heard was one of them fighting with a nightmare.’ Trying, by
such like suggestions, to hearten myself up, I stole across the passage
and peeped in----”

I pause in my narrative.

“Well?” says Jane, a little impatiently.

She has dropped her flowers. They lie in odorous dewy confusion in
her lap. She is listening rather eagerly. I cover my face with my
hands. “Oh! my dear,” I cry, “I do not think I can go on. It was _too_
dreadful! Now that I am telling it I seem to be doing and hearing it
over again----”

“I do not call it very kind to keep me on the rack,” she says, with a
rather forced laugh. “Probably I am imagining something much worse than
the reality. For heaven’s sake speak up! What _did_ you see?”

I take hold of her hand and continue. “You know that in your room the
bed exactly faces the door. Well, when I looked in, looked in with
eyes blinking at first, and dazzled by the long darkness they had been
in, it seemed to me as if that bed were only one horrible sheet of
crimson; but as my sight grew clearer I saw what it was that caused
that frightful impression of universal red----” Again I pause with a
gasp and feeling of oppressed breathing.

“Go on! go on!” cries my companion, leaning forward, and speaking with
some petulance. “Are you never going to get to the point?”

“Jane,” say I solemnly, “do not laugh at me, nor pooh pooh me, for
it is God’s truth--as clearly and vividly as I see you now, strong,
flourishing, and alive, so clearly, so vividly, with no more of dream
haziness nor of contradiction in details than there is in the view
I now have of this room and of you--I saw you _both_--you and your
husband, lying _dead_--_murdered_--drowned in your own blood!”

“What, both of us?” she says, trying to laugh, but her healthy cheek
has rather paled.

“Both of you,” I answer, with growing excitement. “You, Jane, had
evidently been the one first attacked--taken off in your sleep--for you
were lying just as you would have lain in slumber, only that across
your throat from there to there” (touching first one ear and then the
other), “there was a huge and yawning gash.”

“Pleasant,” replies she, with a slight shiver.

“I never saw any one dead,” continue I earnestly, “never until last
night. I had not the faintest idea how dead people looked, even people
who died quietly, nor has any picture ever given me at all a clear
conception of death’s dread look. How then could I have _imagined_ the
hideous contraction and distortion of feature, the staring starting
open eyes--glazed yet agonized--the tightly clenched teeth that go to
make up the picture, that is _now, this very minute_, standing out in
ugly vividness before my mind’s eye?” I stop, but she does not avail
herself of the pause to make any remark, neither does she look any
longer at all laughingly inclined.

“And yet,” continue I, with a voice shaken by emotion, “it was _you_,
_very_ you, not partly you and partly some one else, as is mostly the
case in dreams, but as much _you_, as the _you_ I am touching now”
(laying my finger on her arm as I speak).

“And my old man, Robin,” says poor Jane, rather tearfully, after a
moment’s silence, “what about him? Did you see him? Was he dead too?”

“It was evidently he whom I had heard struggling and crying,” I answer
with a strong shudder, which I cannot keep down, “for it was clear
that he had fought for his life. He was lying half on the bed and half
on the floor, and one clenched hand was grasping a great piece of the
sheet; he was lying head downwards, as if, after his last struggle, he
had fallen forwards. All his grey hair was reddened and stained, and I
could see that the rift in his throat was as deep as that in yours.”

“I wish you would stop,” cries Jane, pale as ashes, and speaking with
an accent of unwilling terror; “you are making me quite sick!”

“I _must_ finish,” I answer earnestly, “since it has come in time I am
sure it has come for some purpose. Listen to me till the end; it is
very near.” She does not speak, and I take her silence for assent. “I
was staring at you both in a stony way,” I go on, a feeling--if I felt
at all--that I was turning idiotic with horror--standing in exactly
the same spot, with my neck craned to look round the door, and my eyes
unable to stir from that hideous scarlet bed, when a slight noise, as
of some one cautiously stepping on the carpet, turned my stony terror
into a living quivering agony. I looked and saw a man with his back
towards me walking across the room from the bed to the dressing-table.
He was dressed in the dirty fustian of an ordinary workman, and in his
hand he held a red wet sickle. When he reached the dressing-table he
laid it down on the floor beside him, and began to collect all the
rings, open the cases of the bracelets, and hurry the trinkets of all
sorts into his pockets. While he was thus busy I caught a full view
of the reflection of the face in the glass---- I stop for breath, my
heart is panting almost as hardly as it seemed to pant during the awful
moments I am describing.

“What was he like--what was he like?” cries Jane, greatly excited. “Did
you see him distinctly enough to recollect his features again? Would
you know him again if you saw him?”

“Should I know my own face if I saw it in the glass?” I ask scornfully.
“I see every line of it _now_ more clearly than I do yours, though that
is before my eyes, and the other only before my memory----”

“Well, what was he like?--be quick, for heaven’s sake.”

“The first moment that I caught sight of him,” continue I, speaking
quickly, “I felt certain that he was Irish; to no other nationality
could such a type of face have belonged. His wild rough hair fell down
over his forehead, reaching his shagged and overhanging brows. He
had the wide grinning slit of a mouth--the long nose, the cunningly
twinkling eyes--that one so often sees, in combination with a shambling
gait and ragged tail-coat, at the railway stations or in the harvest
fields at this time of year.” A pause. “I do not know how it came to
me,” I go on presently; “but I felt as convinced as if I had been
told--as if I had known it for a positive fact--that he was one of
your own labourers--one of your own harvest men. Have you any Irishmen
working for you?”

“Of course we have,” answers Jane, rather sharply, “but that proves
nothing. Do not they, as you observed just now, come over in droves at
this time of the year for the harvest?”

“I am sorry,” say I, sighing. “I wish you had not. Well, let me finish;
I have just done--I had been holding the door-handle mechanically in
my hand; I suppose I pulled it unconsciously towards me, for the door
hinge creaked a little, but quite audibly. To my unspeakable horror the
man turned round and saw me. Good God! he would cut my throat too with
that red, _red_ reaping hook! I tried to get into the passage and lock
the door, but the key was on the inside. I tried to scream, I tried to
run; but voice and legs disobeyed me. The bed and room and man began
to dance before me; a black earthquake seemed to swallow me up, and
I suppose I fell down in a swoon. When I awoke _really_ the blessed
morning had come, and a robin was singing outside my window on an apple
bough. There--you have it all, and now let me look for a ‘Bradshaw,’
for I am so frightened and unhinged that go I must.”

CHAPTER III.

“I must own that it has taken away appetite,” I say, with rather a
sickly smile, as we sit round the breakfast table. “I assure you that
I mean no insult to your fresh eggs and bread-and-butter, but I simply
_cannot_ eat.”

“It certainly was an exceptionally dreadful dream,” says Jane, whose
colour has returned, and who is a good deal fortified and reassured
by the influences of breakfast and of her husband’s scepticism; for a
condensed and shortened version of my dream has been told to him, and
he has easily laughed it to scorn. “Exceptionally dreadful, chiefly
from its extreme consistency and precision of detail. But still, you
know, dear, one has had hideous dreams oneself times out of mind and
they never came to anything. I remember once I dreamt that all my teeth
came out in my mouth at once--double ones and all; but that was ten
years ago, and they still keep their situations, nor did I about that
time lose any friend, which they say such a dream is a sign of.”

“You say that some unaccountable instinct told you that the hero of
your dream was one of my own men,” says Robin, turning towards me with
a covert smile of benevolent contempt for my superstitiousness; “did
not I understand you to say so?”

“Yes,” reply I, not in the least shaken by his hardly-veiled disbelief.
“I do not know how it came to me, but I was as much persuaded of that,
and am so still, as I am of my own identity.”

“I will tell you of a plan then to prove the truth of your vision,”
returns he, smiling. “I will take you through the fields this morning
and you shall see all my men at work, both the ordinary staff and
the harvest casuals, Irish and all. If amongst them you find the
counterpart of Jane’s and my murderer” (a smile) “I will promise
_then_--no, not even _then_ can I promise to believe you, for there is
such a family likeness between all Irishmen, at all events, between all
the Irishmen that one sees _out_ of Ireland.”

“Take me,” I say, eagerly, jumping up; “now, this _minute_! You cannot
be more anxious nor half so anxious to prove me a false prophet as I am
to be proved one.”

“I am quite at your service,” he answers, “as soon as you please.
Jenny, get your hat and come too.”

“And if we do _not_ find him,” says Jane, smiling playfully--“I think I
am growing pretty easy on that head--you will promise to eat a great
deal of luncheon and never _mention_ ‘Bradshaw’ again?”

“I promise,” reply I, gravely. “And if, on the other hand, we _do_ find
him, you will promise to put no more obstacles in the way of my going,
but will let me depart in peace without taking any offence thereat?”

“It is a bargain,” she says gaily. “Witness, Robin.”

So we set off in the bright dewiness of the morning on our walk over
Robin’s farm. It is a grand harvest day, and the whitened sheaves are
everywhere drying, drying in the genial sun. We have been walking for
an hour and both Jane and I are rather tired. The sun beats with all
his late-summer strength on our heads and takes the force and spring
out of our hot limbs.

“The hour of triumph is approaching,” says Robin, with a quiet smile,
as we draw near an open gate through which a loaded wain, shedding
ripe wheat ears from its abundance as it crawls along, is passing. “And
time for it too; it is a quarter past twelve and you have been on your
legs for fully an hour. Miss Bellairs, you must make haste and find the
murderer, for there is only one more field to do it in.”

“Is not there?” I cry eagerly, “Oh, I _am_ glad! Thank God, I begin to
breathe again.”

We pass through the open gate and begin to tread across the stubble,
for almost the last load has gone.

“We must get nearer the hedge,” says Robin, “or you will not see their
faces; they are all at dinner.”

We do as he suggests. In the shadow of the hedge we walk close in front
of the row of heated labourers, who, sitting or lying on the hedge
bank, are eating unattractive looking dinners. I scan one face after
another--honest bovine English faces. I have seen a hundred thousand
faces _like_ each one of the faces now before me--very like, but the
exact counterpart of none. We are getting to the end of the row, I
beginning to feel rather ashamed, though infinitely relieved, and to
smile at my own expense. I look again, and my heart suddenly stands
still and turns to stone within me. He is _there_!--not a hand-breadth
from me! Great God! how well I have remembered his face, even to the
unsightly smallpox seams, the shagged locks, the grinning slit mouth,
the little sly base eyes. He is employed in no murderous occupation
_now_; he is harmlessly cutting hunks of coarse bread and fat cold
bacon with a clasp knife, but yet I have no more doubt that it is
_he_--he whom I saw with the crimsoned sickle in his stained hand--than
I have that it is I who am stonily, shiveringly, staring at him.

“Well, Miss Bellairs, who was right?” asks Robin’s cheery voice at my
elbow. “Perish ‘Bradshaw’ and all his labyrinths! Are you satisfied
now? Good heavens!” (catching a sudden sight of my face) “How white you
are! Do you mean to say that you have found him at last? Impossible!”

“Yes, I have found him,” I answer in a low and unsteady tone. “I knew I
should. Look, there he is!--close to us, the third from the end.”

I turn away my head, unable to bear the hideous recollections and
associations that the sight of the man calls up, and I suppose that
they both look.

“Are you sure that you are not letting your imagination carry you
away?” asks he presently, in a tone of gentle kindly remonstrance. “As
I said before these fellows are all so much alike; they have all the
same look of debased squalid cunning. Oblige me by looking once again,
so as to be quite sure.”

I obey. Reluctantly I look at him once again. Apparently, becoming
aware that he is the object of our notice, he lifts his small dull eyes
and looks back at me. It is the same face--they are the same eyes that
turned from the plundered dressing-table to catch sight of me last
night. “There is no mistake,” I answer, shuddering from head to foot.
“Take me away, please--as quick as you can--out of the field--home!”

They comply, and over the hot fields and through the hot noon air we
step silently homewards. As we reach the cool and ivied porch of the
house I speak for the first time. “You believe me _now_?”

He hesitates. “I was staggered for a moment, I will own,” he answers,
with candid gravity; “but I have been thinking it over, and on
reflection I have come to the conclusion that the highly excited
state of your imagination is answerable for the heightening of the
resemblance which exists between all the Irish of that class into an
identity with the particular Irishman you dreamed of, and whose face
(by your own showing) you only saw dimly reflected in the glass.”

“_Not_ dimly,” repeat I emphatically, “unless I now see that sun dimly”
(pointing to him, as he gloriously, blindingly blazes from the sky).
“You will not be warned by me then?” I continue passionately, after
an interval. “You will run the risk of my dream coming true--you will
stay on here in spite of it? Oh, if I could persuade you to go from
home--anywhere--anywhere--for a time, until the danger was past!”

“And leave the harvest to itself?” answers he, with a smile of quiet
sarcasm; “be a loser of two hundred or three hundred pounds, probably,
and a laughing-stock to my acquaintance into the bargain, and all
for--what? A dream--a fancy--a nightmare!”

“But do you know anything of the man?--of his antecedents?--of his
character?” I persist eagerly.

He shrugs his shoulders.

“Nothing whatever; nothing to his disadvantage, certainly. He came
over with a lot of others a fortnight ago, and I engaged him for the
harvesting. For anything I have heard to the contrary, he is a simple
inoffensive fellow enough.”

I am silenced, but not convinced. I turn to Jane. “You remember your
promise: you will now put no more hindrances in the way of my going?”

“You do not mean to say that you are going, really?” says Jane, who is
looking rather awed by what she calls the surprising coincidence, but
is still a good deal heartened up by her husband’s want of faith.

“I do,” reply I, emphatically. “I should go stark staring mad if I were
to sleep another night in that room. I shall go to Chester to-night,
and cross to-morrow from Holyhead.”

I do as I say. I make my maid, to her extreme surprise, repack my just
unpacked wardrobe and take an afternoon train to Chester. As I drive
away with bag and baggage down the leafy lane, I look back and see my
two friends standing at their gate. Jane is leaning her head on her old
man’s shoulder, and looking rather wistfully after me: an expression of
mingled regret for my departure and vexation at my folly clouding their
kind and happy faces. At least my last living recollection of them is a
pleasant one.

CHAPTER IV.

The joy with which my family welcome my return is largely mingled with
surprise, but still more largely with curiosity, as to the cause of my
so sudden reappearance. But I keep my own counsel. I have a reluctance
to give the real reason, and possess no inventive faculty in the way of
lying, so I give none. I say, “I _am_ back: is not that enough for you?
Set your minds at rest, for that is as much as you will ever know about
the matter.”

For one thing, I am occasionally rather ashamed of my conduct. It is
not that the impression produced by my dream is _effaced_, but that
absence and distance from the scene and the persons of it have produced
their natural weakening effect. Once or twice during the voyage, when
writhing in laughable torments in the ladies’ cabin of the steamboat, I
said to myself, “Most likely you are a fool!” I therefore continually
ward off the cross-questionings of my family with what defensive armour
of silence and evasion I may.

“I feel convinced it was the husband,” says one of my sisters, after a
long catechism, which, as usual, has resulted in nothing. “You are too
loyal to your friend to own it, but I always felt sure that any man
who could take compassion on that poor peevish old Jane must be some
wonderful freak of nature. Come, confess. Is not he a cross between an
ourang-outang and a Methodist parson?”

“He is nothing of the kind,” reply I, in some heat, recalling the
libelled Robin’s clean fresh-coloured _human_ face. “You will be
very lucky if you ever secure any one half so kind, pleasant, and
gentleman-like.”

Three days after my return, I receive a letter from Jane:

                                               “Weston House, Caulfield.

  “MY DEAR DINAH,--I hope you are safe home again, and that you
  have made up your mind that two crossings of St. George’s Channel
  within forty-eight hours are almost as bad as having your throat
  cut, according to the programme you laid out for _us_. I have good
  news for you. Our murderer elect is _gone_. After hearing of the
  connection that there was to be between us, Robin naturally was
  rather interested in him, and found out his name, which is the
  melodious one of Watty Doolan. After asking his name he asked other
  things about him, and finding that he never did a stroke of work and
  was inclined to be tipsy and quarrelsome, he paid and packed him off
  at once. He is now, I hope, on his way back to his native shores,
  and if he murder anybody it will be _you_, my dear. Good-bye, Dinah.
  Hardly yet have I forgiven you for the way in which you frightened me
  with your graphic description of poor Robin and me, with our heads
  loose and waggling.

                                       “Ever yours affectionately,
                                                          “JANE WATSON.”

I fold up this note with a feeling of exceeding relief, and a thorough
faith that I have been a superstitious hysterical fool. More resolved
than ever am I to keep the reason for my return profoundly secret from
my family. The next morning but one we are all in the breakfast-room
after breakfast, hanging about, and looking at the papers. My sister
has just thrown down the _Times_, with a pettish exclamation that
there is nothing in it, and that it really is not worth while paying
threepence a day to see nothing but advertisements and police reports.
I pick it up as she throws it down, and look listlessly over its tall
columns from top to bottom. Suddenly my listlessness vanishes. What is
this that I am reading?--this in staring capitals?

  “SHOCKING TRAGEDY AT CAULFIELD.
  DOUBLE MURDER.”

I am in the middle of the paragraph before I realise what it is.

  “From an early hour of the morning this village has been the scene
  of deep and painful excitement in consequence of the discovery of
  the atrocious murder of Mr. and Mrs. Watson, of Weston House, two
  of its most respected inhabitants. It appears that the deceased had
  retired to rest on Tuesday night at their usual hour, and in their
  usual health and spirits. The housemaid, on going to call them at
  the accustomed hour on Wednesday morning, received no answer, in
  spite of repeated knocking. She therefore at length opened the door
  and entered. The rest of the servants, attracted by her cries, rushed
  to the spot, and found the unfortunate gentleman and lady lying on
  the bed with their throats cut from ear to ear. Life must have been
  extinct for some hours, as they were both perfectly cold. The room
  presented a hideous spectacle, being literally swimming in blood.
  A reaping hook, evidently the instrument with which the crime was
  perpetrated, was picked up near the door. An Irish labourer of the
  name of Watty Doolan, discharged by the lamented gentleman a few days
  ago on account of misconduct, has already been arrested on strong
  suspicion, as at an early hour on Wednesday morning he was seen by a
  farm labourer, who was going to his work, washing his waistcoat at a
  retired spot in the stream which flows through the meadows below the
  scene of the murder. On being apprehended and searched, several small
  articles of jewelry, identified as having belonged to Mr. Watson,
  were discovered in his possession.”

I drop the paper and sink into a chair, feeling deadly sick.

So you see that my dream came true, after all.

The facts narrated in the above story occurred in Ireland. The only
liberty I have taken with them is in transplanting them to England.
