THE ALTHEIM REVENANT

"The Phantom World"

A monk of the Abbey of Toussaints relates that on the 9th of September
1625 a man named John Steinlin died at a place called Altheim, in the
diocese of Constance. Steinlin was a man in easy circumstances, and a
common-councilman of his town. Some days after his death he appeared
during the night to a tailor, named Simon Bauh, in the form of a man
surrounded by a sombre flame, like that of lighted sulphur, going and
coming in his own house, but without speaking. Bauh, who was disquieted
by this sight, resolved to ask him what he could do to serve him. He
found an opportunity to do so, the 17th of November in the same year,
1625; for, as he was reposing at night near his stove, a little after
eleven o'clock, he beheld this spectre environed by fire like sulphur,
who came into his room, going and coming, shutting and opening the
windows. The tailor asked him what he desired. He replied, in a hoarse
interrupted voice, that he could help very much, if he would; "but,"
added he, "do not promise me to do so, if you are not resolved to
execute your promises." "I will execute them, if they are not beyond my
power," replied he.

"I wish, then," replied the spirit, "that you would cause a mass to be
said, in the Chapel of the Virgin at Rotembourg; I made a vow to that
intent during my life, and I have not acquitted myself of it. Moreover,
you must have two masses said at Altheim, the one of the Defunct and the
other of the Virgin; and as I did not always pay my servants exactly, I
wish that a quarter of corn should be distributed to the poor." Simon
promised to satisfy him on all these points. The spectre held out his
hand, as if to ensure his promise; but Simon, fearing that some harm
might happen to himself, tendered him the board which came to hand, and
the spectre having touched it, left the print of his hand with the four
fingers and thumb, as if fire had been there, and had left a pretty deep
impression. After that he vanished with so much noise that it was heard
three houses off.

XXXVI

SERTORIUS AND HIS HIND

NORTH'S "Plutarch"

So soone as Sertorius arriued from Africa, he straight leauied men of
warre, and with them subdued the people of Spaine fronting upon his
marches, of which the more part did willingly submit themselues, upon
the bruit that ran of him to be merciful and courteous, and a valiant
man besides in present danger. Furthermore, he lacked no fine deuises
and subtilties to win their goodwills: as among others, the policy, and
deuise of the hind. There was a poore man of the countrey called Spanus,
who meeting by chance one day with a hind in his way that had newly
calued, flying from the hunters, he let the damme go, not being able to
take her; and running after her calfe tooke it, which was a young hind,
and of a strange haire, for she was all milk-white. It chanced so, that
Sertorius was at that time in those parts. So, this poore man presented
Sertorius with his young hind, which he gladly receiued, and which with
time he made so tame, that she would come to him when he called her, and
follow him whereeuer he went, being nothing the wilder for the daily
sight of such a number of armed souldiers together as they were, nor yet
afraid of the noise and tumult of the campe. Insomuch as Sertorius by
little and little made it a miracle, making the simple barbarous people
beleeue that it was a gift that Diana had sent him, by the which she
made him understand of many and sundrie things to come: knowing well
inough of himselfe, that the barbarous people were men easily deceiued,
and quickly caught by any subtill superstition, besides that by art also
he brought them to beleeue it as a thing verie true. For when he had any
secret intelligence giuen him, that the enemies would inuade some part
of the countries and prouinces subject vnto him, or that they had taken
any of his forts from him by any intelligence or sudden attempt, he
straight told them that his hind spake to him as he slept, and had
warned him both to arme his men, and put himselfe in strength. In like
manner if he had heard any newes that one of his lieutenants had wonne a
battell, or that he had any aduantage of his enemies, he would hide the
messenger, and bring his hind abroad with a garland and coller of
nosegayes: and then say, it was a token of some good newes comming
towards him, perswading them withall to be of good cheare; and so did
sacrifice to the gods, to giue them thankes for the good tidings he
should heare before it were long. Thus by putting this superstition into
their heades, he made them the more tractable and obedient to his will,
in so much as they thought they were not now gouerned any more by a
stranger wiser than themselues, but were steadfastly perswaded that they
were rather led by some certaine god.----

Now was Sertorius very heauie, that no man could tell him what was
become of his white hind: for thereby all his subtilltie and finenesse
to keepe the barbarous people in obedience was taken away, and then
specially when they stood in need of most comfort. But by good hap,
certaine of his souldiers that had lost themselves in the night, met
with the hind in their way, and knowing her by her colour, tooke her and
brought her backe againe. Sertorius hearing of her, promised them a good
reward, so that they would tell no liuing creature that they brought her
againe, and thereupon made her to be secretly kept. Then within a few
dayes after, he came abroad among them, and with a pleasant countenance
told the noble men and chiefe captaines of these barbarous people, how
the gods had reuealed it to him in his dreame, that he should shortly
haue a maruellous good thing happen to him: and with these words sate
downe in his chaire to giue audience. Whereupon they that kept the hind
not farre from thence, did secretly let her go. The hind being loose,
when she had spied Sertorius, ranne straight to his chaire with great
joy, and put her head betwixt his legges, and layed her mouth in his
right hand, as she before was wont to do. Sertorius also made very much
of her, and of purpose appeared maruellous glad, shewing much tender
affection to the hind, as it seemed the water stood in his eyes for joy.
The barbarous people that stood there by and beheld the same, at the
first were much amazed therewith, but afterwards when they had better
bethought themselues, for ioy they clapped their hands together, and
waited upon Sertorius to his lodging with great and ioyfull shouts,
saying, and steadfastly beleeuing, that he was a heavenly creature, and
beloued of the gods.

XXXVII

ERICHTHO

By E.W. GODWIN. (From Lucan.)

When Sextus sought Erichtho he chose his time in the depth of the night,
when the sun is at its lowermost distance from the upper sky. He took
for companions the associates of his crimes. Wandering among broken
graves and crumbling sepulchres, they discovered her, sitting sublime on
a ragged rock, where Mount Haemus stretches its roots to the Pharsalic
field. She was mumbling charms of the Magi and the magical gods. For she
feared that the war might yet be transferred to other than the Emathian
fields. The sorceress was busy therefore enchanting the soil of
Philippi, and scattering on its surface the juice of potent herbs, that
it might be heaped with carcasses of the dead, and saturated with their
blood, that Macedon, and not Italy, might receive the bodies of departed
kings and the bones of the noble, and might be amply peopled with the
shades of men. Her choicest labour was as to the earth where should be
deposited the prostrate Pompey, or the limbs of the mighty Caesar.

Sextus approached, and bespoke her thus: "Oh, glory of Haemonia, that
hast the power to divulge the fates of men, or canst turn aside fate
itself from its prescribed course, I pray thee to exercise thy gift in
disclosing events to come. Not the meanest of the Roman race am I, the
offspring of an illustrious chieftain, lord of the world in the one
case, or in the other the destined heir to my father's calamity. I stand
on a tremendous and giddy height: snatch me from this posture of doubt;
let me not blindly rush on, and blindly fall; extort this secret from
the gods, or force the dead to confess what they know."

To whom the Thessalian crone replied: "If you asked to change the fate
of an individual, though it were to restore an old man, decrepit with
age, to vigorous youth, I could comply; but to break the eternal chain
of causes and consequences exceeds even our power. You seek, however,
only a foreknowledge of events to come, and you shall be gratified.
Meanwhile it were best, where slaughter has afforded so ample a field,
to select the body of one newly deceased, and whose flexible organs
shall be yet capable of speech, not with lineaments already hardened in
the sun."

Saying thus, Erichtho proceeded (having first with her art made the
night itself more dark, and involved her head in a pitchy cloud), to
explore the field, and examine one by one the bodies of the unburied
dead. As she approached, the wolves fled before her, and the birds of
prey, unwillingly sheathing their talons, abandoned their repast, while
the Thessalian witch, searching into the vital parts of the frames
before her, at length fixed on one whose lungs were uninjured, and whose
organs of speech had sustained no wound. The fate of many hung in doubt,
till she had made her selection. Had the revival of whole armies been
her will, armies would have stood up obedient to her bidding. She passed
a hook beneath the jaw of the selected one, and, fastening it to a cord,
dragged him along over rocks and stones, till she reached a cave,
overhung by a projecting ridge. A gloomy fissure in the ground was
there, of a depth almost reaching to the infernal gods, where the
yew-tree spread thick its horizontal branches, at all times excluding
the light of the sun. Fearful and withering shade was there, and noisome
slime cherished by the livelong night. The air was heavy and flagging as
that of the Taenarian promontory; and hither the god of hell permits his
ghosts to extend their wanderings. It is doubtful whether the sorceress
called up the dead to attend her here, or herself descended to the
abodes of Pluto. She put on a fearful and variegated robe; she covered
her face with her dishevelled hair, and bound her brow with a wreath of
vipers.

Meanwhile she observed Sextus afraid, with his eyes fixed on the ground,
and his companions trembling; and thus she reproached them. "Lay aside,"
she said, "your vainly-conceived terrors! You shall behold only a living
and a human figure, whose accents you may listen to with perfect
security. If this alarms you, what would you say if you should have seen
the Stygian lakes, and the shores burning with sulphur unconsumed, if
the Furies stood before you, and Cerberus with his mane of vipers, and
the Giants chained in eternal adamant? Yet all these you might have
witnessed unharmed; for all these would quail at the terror of my brow."

She spoke, and next plied the dead body with her arts. She supples his
wounds, and infuses fresh blood into his veins: she frees his scars from
the clotted gore, and penetrates them with froth from the moon. She
mixes whatever nature has engendered in its most fearful caprices, foam
from the jaws of a mad dog, the entrails of the lynx, the backbone of
the hyena, and the marrow of a stag that had dieted on serpents, the
sinews of the remora, and the eyes of a dragon, the eggs of the eagle,
the flying serpent of Arabia, the viper that guards the pearl in the Red
Sea, the slough of the hooded snake, and the ashes that remain when the
phoenix has been consumed. To these she adds all venom that has a
name, the foliage of herbs over which she has sung her charms, and on
which she had voided her rheum as they grew.

At length she chants her incantation to the Stygian Gods, in a voice
compounded of all discords, and altogether alien to human organs. It
resembles at once the barking of a dog and the howl of a wolf; it
consists of the hooting of the screech-owl, the yelling of a ravenous
wild beast, and the fearful hiss of a serpent. It borrows somewhat from
the roar of tempestuous waves, the hollow rushing of the winds among the
branches of the forest, and the tremendous crash of deafening thunder.

"Ye Furies," she cries, "and dreadful Styx, ye sufferings of the damned,
and Chaos, for ever eager to destroy the fair harmony of worlds, and
thou, Pluto, condemned, to an eternity of ungrateful existence, Hell,
and Elysium, of which no Thessalian witch shall partake, Proserpine, for
ever cut off from thy health-giving mother, and horrid Hecate, Cerberus
curst with incessant hunger, ye Destinies, and Charon endlessly
murmuring at the task I impose of bringing back the dead again to the
land of the living, hear me!--if I call on you with a voice sufficiently
impious and abominable, if I have never sung this chaunt, unsated with
human gore, if I have frequently laid on your altars the fruit of the
pregnant mother, bathing its contents with the reeking brain, if I have
placed on a dish before you the head and entrails of an infant on the
point to be born----

"I ask not of you a ghost, already a tenant of the Tartarean abodes, and
long familiarised to the shades below, but one who has recently quitted
the light of day, and who yet hovers over the mouth of hell; let him
hear these incantations, and immediately after descend to his destined
place! Let him articulate suitable omens to the son of his general,
having so late been himself a soldier of the great Pompey! Do this, as
you love the very sound and rumour of a civil war!"

Saying this, behold, the ghost of the dead man stood erect before her,
trembling at the view of his own unanimated limbs, and loth to enter
again the confines of his wonted prison. He shrinks to invest himself
with the gored bosom, and the fibres from which death had separated him.
Unhappy wretch, to whom death had not given the privilege to die!
Erichtho, impatient at the unlooked-for delay, lashes the unmoving
corpse with one of her serpents. She calls anew on the powers of hell,
and threatens to pronounce the dreadful name, which cannot be
articulated without consequences never to be thought of, nor without the
direst necessity to be ventured upon.

At length the congealed blood becomes liquid and warm; it oozes from the
wounds, and creeps steadily along the veins and the members; the fibres
are called into action beneath the gelid breast, and the nerves once
more become instinct with life. Life and death are there at once. The
arteries beat; the muscles are braced; the body raises itself, not by
degrees, but at a single impulse, and stands erect. The eyelids unclose.
The countenance is not that of a living subject, but of the dead. The
paleness of the complexion, the rigidity of the lines, remain; and he
looks about with an unmeaning stare, but utters no sound. He waits on
the potent enchantress.

"Speak!" said she, "and ample shall be your reward. You shall not again
be subject to the art of the magician. I will commit your members to
such a sepulchre; I will burn your form with such wood, and will chaunt
such a charm over your funeral pyre, that all incantations shall
thereafter assail you in vain. Be it enough, that you have once been
brought back to life! Tripods, and the voice of oracles deal in
ambiguous responses; but the voice of the dead is perspicuous and
certain to him who receives it with an unshrinking spirit. Spare not!
Give names to things; give places a clear designation, speak with a full
and articulate voice."

Saying this, she added a further spell, qualified to give to him who was
to answer, a distinct knowledge of that respecting which he was about to
be consulted. He accordingly delivers the responses demanded of him;
and, that done, earnestly requires of the witch to be dismissed. Herbs
and magic rites are necessary, that the corpse may be again unanimated,
and the spirit never more be liable to be recalled to the realms of day.
The sorceress constructs the funeral pile; the dead man places himself
upon it; Erichtho applies the torch, and the charm is ended for ever.

III

OMENS AND PHANTASMS

XXXVIII

PATROKLOS

HOMER'S _Iliad_ (E.H. Blakeney's translation[13])

Then there came unto him the ghost of poor Patroklos, in all things like
unto the very man, in stature, and fair eyes, and voice; and he was
arrayed in vesture such as in life he wore. He stood above the hero's
head and challenged him:--

"Thou sleepest, Achilles, unmindful of me. Not in my lifetime wert thou
neglectful, but in death. Bury me with all speed; let me pass the gates
of Hades. Far off the souls, wraiths of the dead, keep me back, nor
suffer me yet to join them beyond the river; forlorn I wander up and
down the wide-doored house of Hades. And now give me thy hand, I
entreat; for never more shall I return from Hades, when once ye have
given me my meed of fire. Nay, never more shall we sit, at least in
life, apart from our comrades, taking counsel together; but upon me
hateful doom hath gaped--doom which was my portion even at birth. Aye
and to thee thyself also, Achilles, thou peer of the gods, it is fated
to perish beneath the wall of the wealthy Trojans. Another thing I will
tell thee, and will straitly charge thee, if peradventure thou wilt
hearken: lay not my bones apart from thine, Achilles, but side by side;
for we were brought up together in thy house, when Menoitios brought me,
a child, from Opoeeis to thy father's house because of woeful bloodshed
on the day when I slew the son of Amphidamas, myself a child,
unwittingly, but in wrath over our games. Then did Peleus, the knight,
take me into his home and rear me kindly and name me thy squire. So let
one urn also hide the bones of us both."

And swift-footed Achilles answered him and said:--

"Why, dearest and best-beloved, hast thou come hither to lay upon me
these thy several behests? Of a truth I will accomplish all, and bow to
thy command. But stand nearer, I pray; for a little space let us cast
our arms about each other, and take our fill of dire sorrow."

With these words he stretched forth his hands to clasp him, but could
not; for, like a smoke, the spirit vanished earthward with a wailing
cry. Amazed, Achilles sprang up, and smote his hands together, and spake
a piteous word:--

"O ye heavens! surely, even among the dead, the soul and wraith are
something (yet is there no life therein at all). For all night long the
soul of poor Patroklos stood beside me, crying and making lamentation,
and bade me do his will; it was the perfect image of himself."

So he spake, and in the hearts of them all roused desire for
lamentation; and while they yet were mourning about the pitiful corpse
appeared rosy-fingered dawn.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 13: George Bell & Sons.]

XXXIX

VISION OF CROMWELL

By "ARISE EVANS"

A vision that I had presently after the king's death--I thought that I
was in a great hall, like the king's hall, or the castle in Winchester,
and there was none there but a judge that sat upon the bench and myself;
and as I turned to a window in the north-westward, and looking into the
palm of my hand, there appeared to me a face, head and shoulders like
the Lord Fairfax's, and presently it vanished. Again, there arose the
Lord Cromwell, and he vanished likewise; then arose a young face and he
had a crown upon his head, and he vanished also; and another young face
arose with a crown upon his head, and he vanished also; and another
young face arose with a crown upon his head, and vanished in like
manner; and as I turned the palm of my hand back again to me and looked,
there did appear no more in it. Then I turned to the judge and said to
him, there arose in my hand seven, and five of them had crowns; but when
I turned my hand, the blood turned to its veins, and these appeared no
more: so I awoke. The interpretation of this vision is, that after the
Lord Cromwell, there shall be kings again in England, which thing is
signified unto us by those that arose after him, who were all crowned,
but the generations to come may look for a change of the blood, and of
the name in the royal seat, after five kings once passed, 2 Kings x. 30.
(The words referred to in this text are these:) "And the Lord said unto
Jehu, because thou hast done well, etc., thy children of the fourth
generation shall sit upon the throne of Israel."

XL

LORD STRAFFORD'S WARNING

By the Rev. JOHN MASTIN

In the Rev. John Mastin's _History of Naseby_ is cited a story of an
apparition that was supposed to have appeared to Charles the First at
Daintree, near Naseby, previous to the famous battle of that name.

The army of Charles, says the historian, consisting of less than 5000
foot, and about as many horse, was ordered to Daintree, whither the King
went with a thorough resolution of fighting. The next day, however, to
the surprise of Prince Rupert and all the rest of the army, this design
was given up, and the former one of going to the north resumed. The
reason of this alteration in his plans was alleged to be some presages
of ill-fortune which the King had received, and which were related to
me, says Mr Mastin's authority, by a person of Newark, at that time in
His Majesty's horse. About two hours after the King had retired to rest,
said the narrator, some of his attendants hearing an uncommon noise in
his chamber, went into it, where they found His Majesty sitting up in
bed and much agitated, but nothing which could have produced the noise
they fancied they had heard. The King, in a tremulous voice, inquired
after the cause of their alarm, and told them how much he had been
disturbed, apparently by a dream, by thinking he had seen an apparition
of Lord Strafford, who, after upbraiding him for his cruelty, told him
he was come to return him good for evil, and that he advised him by no
means to fight the Parliament army that was at that time quartered at
Northampton, for it was one which the King could never conquer by arms.
Prince Rupert, in whom courage was the predominant quality, rated the
King out of his apprehensions the next day, and a resolution was again
taken to meet the enemy. The next night, however, the apparition
appeared to him a second time, but with looks of anger assuring him that
would be the last advice he should be permitted to give him, but that if
he kept his resolution of fighting he was undone. If His Majesty had
taken the advice of the friendly ghost, and marched northward the next
day, where the Parliament had few English forces, and where the Scots
were becoming very discontented, his affairs might, perhaps, still have
had a prosperous issue, or if he had marched immediately into the west
he might afterwards have fought on more equal terms. But the King,
fluctuating between the apprehensions of his imagination and the
reproaches of his courage, remained another whole day at Daintree in a
state of inactivity. The battle of Naseby, fought 14th June 1645, put a
finishing stroke to the King's affairs. After this he could never get
together an army fit to look the enemy in the face. He was often heard
to say that he wished he had taken _the warning_, and not fought at
Naseby; the meaning of which nobody knew but those to whom he had told
of the apparition which he had seen at Daintree, and all of whom were,
subsequently, charged to keep the affair secret.

XLI

KOTTER'S RED CIRCLE

From FERRIER'S "Apparitions"

Kotter's first vision was detailed by him, on oath, before the
magistrates of Sprottaw, in 1619. While he was travelling on foot, in
open daylight, in June 1616, a man appeared to him, who ordered him to
inform the civil and ecclesiastical authorities, that great evils were
impending over Germany, for the punishment of the sins of the people;
after which he vanished. The same apparition met him at different times,
and compelled him at length, by threats, to make this public
declaration.

After this, his visions assumed a more imposing appearance: on one
occasion the angel (for such he was now confessed to be) showed him
three suns, filling one half of the heavens; and nine moons, with their
horns turned towards the east, filling the other half. At the same time,
a superb fountain of pure water spouted from the arid soil, under his
feet.

At another time, he beheld a mighty lion, treading on the moon, and
seven other lions around him, in the clouds.

Sometimes he beheld the encounter of hostile armies, splendidly
accoutred; sometimes he wandered through palaces, whose only inhabitants
were devouring monsters; or beheld dragons of enormous size, in various
scenes of action.

He was at length attended by two angels, in his ecstasy; one of his
visions at this time was of the most formidable and impressive kind. "On
the 13th day of September, says he, both the youths returned to me,
saying, be not afraid, but observe the thing which will be shewn to
thee. And I suddenly beheld a circle, like the sun, red, and as it were,
bloody: in which were black and white lines, or spots, so intermingled,
that sometimes there appeared a greater number of blacks, sometimes of
white; and this sight continued for some space of time. And when they
had said to me, Behold! Attend! Fear not! No evil will befal thee! Lo,
there were three successive peals of thunder, at short intervals, so
loud and dreadful, that I shuddered all over. But the circle stood
before me, and the black and white spots were disunited, and the circle
approached so near that I could have touched it with my hand. And it was
so beautiful, that I had never in my life seen any thing more agreeable:
and the white spots were so bright and pleasant, that I could not
contain my admiration. But the black spots were carried away in cloud of
horrible darkness, in which I heard a dismal outcry, though I could see
no one. Yet these words of lamentation were audible: Woe unto us, who
have committed ourselves unto the black cloud, to be withdrawn from the
circle coloured with the blood of divine grace, in which the grace of
God, in his well-beloved Son, had inclosed us."

After several other piteous exclamations, he saw a procession of many
thousand persons, bearing palms, and singing hymns, but of very small
stature, enter the red circle, from the black cloud, chanting
halleluiah.

XLII

THE VISION OF CHARLES XI. OF SWEDEN

From a _Proces-verbal_

The authenticity of the following narrative rests upon a
_proces-verbal_, drawn out in form, and attested by the signatures of
four credible witnesses.

Charles XI. was one of the most despotic and, at the same time, one of
the ablest monarchs that ever ruled the destinies of Sweden. History
represents him as brave and enlightened, but of a harsh and inflexible
disposition; regulating his opinions by positive facts, and wholly
ungifted with imagination. At the period of which we are about to speak,
death had bereaved him of his Queen, Ulrica Eleonora. Notwithstanding
the harshness which had marked his conduct to the Princess during her
lifetime, and which, in the opinion of his subjects, had precipitated
her into the grave, Charles revered her memory, and appeared more
affected by her loss than might have been imagined from the natural
sternness of his character. Subsequently to this event, he became more
gloomy and taciturn than before, and devoted himself to study with an
intensity of application that evinced his anxiety to escape the tortures
of his own painful reflections. Towards the close of a dreary autumnal
evening, the king, in slippers and _robe de chambre_, was seated before
a large fire, in a private cabinet of his palace at Stockholm. Near him
were his grand chamberlain, the Count de Brahe, who was honoured with
the favourite estimation of his sovereign, and the principal state
physician, Baumgarten, a learned disciple of Hippocrates, who aimed at
the reputation of an _esprit fort_, and who would have pardoned a
disbelief in anything except in the efficacy of his own prescriptions.
The last-mentioned personage had on that evening been hastily summoned
to the presence of the monarch, who felt or fancied himself in need of
his professional skill. The evening was already far advanced, and the
king, contrary to his wont, delayed bidding the customary "goodnight to
all,"--the well-understood signal at which his guests always retired.
With his head bent down, and his eyes fixed upon the decaying embers,
that gradually withdrew even their mockery of warmth from the spacious
fireplace, he maintained a strict silence, evidently fatigued with his
company, yet dreading, though he scarcely knew why, to be left alone.
The grand chamberlain, who perceived that even his profound remarks
failed to excite the attention of the monarch, ventured to hint that his
majesty would do well to seek repose; a gesture of the king retained him
in his place. The physician, in his turn, hazarded a casual observation
on the injurious tendency of late hours. The significant innuendoes
were, however, thrown away on Charles, who replied to them by muttering
between his teeth, "You may remain; I have no wish to sleep." This
permission, with which the drowsy courtiers would willingly have
dispensed, but which was really equivalent to a command, was succeeded
by an attempt on their part to enliven his majesty with different
subjects of conversation. No topic, however, that they introduced could
outlive the second or third phrase. The king was in one of his gloomy
moods; for royalty, with reverence be it spoken, has its moments of
merriment and ill-humour, its mixture of sunshine and of cloud; and be
it known to thee, gentle reader, that ticklish is the position of a
courtier when majesty is in the dumps. To mend, or rather to mar the
matter, the grand chamberlain, imagining that the sadness which
overshadowed the royal brow came from regret, fixed his eyes upon a
portrait of the queen, hung up in the cabinet, and with a sigh of pathos
exclaimed, "How striking the resemblance! and who could not recognise
the expression of majesty and gentleness, that----" "Fudge!" cried the
king. Conscience had probably something to do with the abruptness of the
exclamation. The old chamberlain had unwittingly touched a tender chord;
every allusion to the queen appearing like a tacit reproach to the
august and widowed spouse. "That portrait," added the king, "is too
flattering, the queen was far from handsome"; then, as if inwardly
repentant of his harshness, he rose from his seat and paced the
apartment with hasty strides, to conceal the tears that had well-nigh
betrayed his emotion. He sat in the embrasure of a window which looked
upon the court; the moon was obscured by a thick veil of clouds; not
even a solitary star twinkled through the darkness. The palace at
present inhabited by the kings of Sweden was not at that time finished;
and Charles XI., in whose reign it had been commenced, usually resided
in an old-fashioned edifice, built something in the shape of a
horseshoe, and situated at the point of Ritterholm, commanding a view of
Lake Mader. The royal cabinet was at one of the extremities, nearly
opposite to the grand hall or council-chamber, in which the States were
accustomed to assemble when a message or communication from the crown
was expected. Just at this moment the windows of the council-chamber
appeared brilliantly illuminated. The king was lost in surprise. He at
first imagined the light to proceed from the torch of some domestic. Yet
what could occasion so unseasonable a visit to a place that for a
considerable time had been closed? Besides, the light was too vivid to
be produced by one single torch, it might have been attributed to a
conflagration; but no smoke was perceptible, no noise was heard, the
window glasses were not broken, everything in short seemed to indicate
an illumination, such as takes place on public and solemn occasions.
Charles, without uttering a word, remained gazing at the windows of the
council-chamber. The Count Brahe, who had already grasped the bell-cord,
was on the point of summoning a page, in order to ascertain the cause of
this singular illumination, when the king suddenly prevented him. "I
will visit the chamber myself," said his majesty; the seriousness of his
deportment and the paleness of his countenance indicating a strange
mixture of determination and superstitious awe. He quitted the cabinet
with the unhesitating step of one resolved to obtain mastery over
himself; the legislator of etiquette, and the regulator of bodies, each
with a lighted taper, followed him with fear and trembling. The keeper
of the keys had already retired to rest; Baumgarten was despatched by
the king to awaken him, and to order him forthwith to open the doors of
the council-chamber. Unbounded was the worthy keeper's surprise at the
unexpected intimation. Benign Providence, however, has ordained monarchs
to command, and created keepers of keys to obey. The prudent Cerberus
yawned, dressed himself in haste, and presented himself before his
sovereign with the insignia of his office, a bunch of keys of various
dimensions suspended at his girdle. He commenced by opening the door of
a gallery, which served as a sort of ante-room to the council-chamber.
The king entered; but his astonishment may be conceived, on finding the
walls of the building entirely hung with black. "By whose order has this
been done?" demanded the king in a tone of anger. "Sire," replied the
trembling keeper of the keys, "I am ignorant; the last time the gallery
was opened it was wainscoted with oak, as usual, most assuredly these
hangings are not from your majesty's wardrobe." The king, however, had
by this time traversed at a rapid pace two-thirds of the gallery,
without stopping to avail himself of the worshipful warden's
conjectures. The latter personage and the grand chamberlain followed his
majesty, whilst the learned doctor lingered a little in the rear.
"Sire," cried the keeper of the keys, "I beseech your majesty to go no
farther. As I have a living soul, there is witchcraft in this matter. At
this hour ... and since the death of the queen, God be gracious to us!
It is said that her majesty walks every night in this gallery." "Hold,
Sire!" cried the Count in his turn, "do you not hear a strange noise
which seems to proceed from the council-chamber? Who can foresee the
danger to which your majesty may expose your sacred person?" "Forward!"
replied the resolute monarch in an imperative tone; and as he stopped
before the door of the council-chamber, "Quick! your keys!" said he to
the keeper. He pushed the door violently with his foot, and the noise,
repeated by the echoes of the vaulted roof, resounded through the
gallery like the report of a cannon. The old keeper trembled; he tried
one key, then another, but without success; his hand shook, his sight
was confused. "A soldier, and afraid?" cried Charles with a smile.
"Come, Count, you must be our usher: open that door." "Sire," replied
the grand chamberlain stepping backwards, "if your majesty command me to
walk up to the mouth of a Danish cannon, I will obey on the instant; but
you will not order me to combat with the devil and his imps?" The
monarch snatched the keys from the palsied hands of the infirm old
keeper. "I see," said his majesty in a tone of contempt, "that I must
finish this adventure"; and before his terrified suite could prevent his
design, he had already opened the massy oaken door, and penetrated into
the council-chamber, first pronouncing the usual formula, "with the help
of God." The companions of his midnight excursion entered along with
him, prompted by a sentiment of curiosity, stronger on this occasion
even than terror; their courage too was reinforced by a feeling of
shame, which forbade them to abandon their sovereign in the hour of
peril. The council-chamber was illuminated with an immense number of
torches. The ancient figured tapestry had been replaced by a black
drapery suspended on the walls, along which were ranged, in regular
order, and according to the custom of those days, German, Danish, and
Muscovite banners, trophies of the victories won by the soldiers of
Gustavus Adolphus. In the middle were distinguished the banners of
Sweden, covered with black crape. A numerous assemblage was seated on
the benches of the hall. The four orders of the state--the nobility, the
clergy, the citizens, and the peasants,--were ranged according to the
respective disposition assigned to each. All were clothed in black; and
the multitude of human faces, that shone like so many luminous rays upon
a dark ground, dazzled the sight to such a degree that, of the four
individuals who witnessed this extraordinary scene, not one could
discern amidst the crowd a countenance with which he was familiar; the
position of the four spectators might have been compared to that of
actors, who, in presence of a numerous audience, were incapable of
distinguishing a single face among the confused mass. On the elevated
throne whence the monarch habitually harangued the assembly of the
States, was seated a bleeding corpse, invested with the emblems of
royalty. On the right of this apparition stood a child, a crown upon his
head and the sceptre in his hand; on the left an aged man, or rather
another phantom, leaned upon the throne, opposite to which were several
personages of austere and solemn demeanour, clothed in long black robes,
and seated before a table covered with thick folios and parchments; from
the gravity of their deportment the latter seemed to be judges. Between
the throne and the portion of the council-chamber above which it was
elevated, were placed an axe and a block covered with black crape. In
this unearthly assembly none seemed at all conscious of the presence of
Charles, or of the three individuals by whom he was accompanied. At last
the oldest of the judges in black robes--he who appeared to discharge
the functions of president--rising with dignity, struck three times with
his hand upon an open folio. Profound silence immediately succeeded;
some youths of distinguished appearance, richly dressed, and with their
hands fettered behind their backs, were led into the council-chamber by
a door opposite to that which Charles had opened. Behind them a man of
vigrous mould held the extremity of the cord with which their hands were
pinioned. The prisoner who marched in the foremost rank, and whose air
was more imposing than that of the others, stopped in the midst of the
council-chamber before the block which he seemed to contemplate with
haughty disdain. At the same instant the corse seated on the throne was
agitated by a convulsive tremor, and the purple tide flowed afresh from
his wounds. The youthful prisoner knelt upon the ground, and laid his
head upon the block; the fatal axe glittering in the air descended
swiftly; a stream of blood forced its way even to the platform of the
throne, and mingled with that of the royal corse; whilst the head of the
victim, rebounding from the crimson pavement, rolled to the feet of
Charles, and stained them with blood. Hitherto, astonishment had
rendered the monarch dumb; but at this horrid spectacle his tongue was
unloosed. He advanced a few steps towards the platform, and addressing
himself to the apparition on the left of the corse, boldly pronounced
the customary abjuration, "If thou art of God, speak; if of the Evil
One, depart in peace." The phantom replied in slow and emphatic accents,
"Charles, not under thy reign shall this blood be shed [here the voice
became indistinct]; five monarchs succeeding thee shall first sit on the
throne of Sweden. Woe, woe, woe to the blood of Wasa!" Upon this the
numerous figures composing this extraordinary assemblage became less
distinct, till at last they resembled a mass of coloured shadows, soon
after which they disappeared altogether. The fantastic torches were
extinguished of themselves, and those of Charles and his suite cast
their dim, flickering light upon the old-fashioned tapestry with which
the chamber was usually hung, and which was now slightly moved by the
wind. During some minutes longer a strange sort of melody was heard, a
harmony compared by one of the eye-witnesses of this unparalleled scene
to the murmur of the breeze agitating the foliage, and by another to the
sound emitted by the breaking of a harp-string. All agreed upon one
point, the duration of the apparition, which they stated to have lasted
about ten minutes. The black drapery, the decapitated victim, the stream
of blood which had inundated the platform, all had disappeared with the
phantoms; every trace had vanished except a crimson spot, which still
stained the slipper of Charles, and which alone would have sufficed to
remind him of the horrid vision, had it been possible for any effort to
erase it from his memory. Returning to his private cabinet, the king
committed to paper an exact relation of what he had seen, signed it, and
ordered his companions to do the same. Spite of the precautions taken to
conceal the contents of this statement from the public, they soon
transpired, and were generally known, even during the lifetime of
Charles XI. The original document is still in existence, and its
authenticity has never been questioned; it concludes with the following
remarkable words:--"If," says the king, "all that I have just declared
is not the exact truth, I renounce my hopes of a happier existence which
I may have merited by some good actions, and by my zeal for the welfare
of my people and for the maintenance of the religion of my fathers." If
the reader will call to mind the death of Gustavus III., and the trial
of his assassin, Ankarstroem, he will observe the intimate connection
between these events and the circumstances of the extraordinary
prediction which we have just detailed. The apparition of the young man
beheaded in the presence of the assembled States prognosticated the
execution of Ankarstroem. The crowned corse represented Gustavus III.,
the child, his son and successor, Gustavus Adolphus IV.; and lastly, by
the old man was designated the uncle of Gustavus IV., the Duke of
Sudermania, regent of the kingdom and afterwards king, upon the
deposition of his nephew.

XLIII

BEN JONSON'S PREVISION

DRUMMOND'S "Conversations"

Ben Jonson told Drummond of Hawthornden that "when the king came to
England, about the time that plague was in London, he being in the
country, at Sir Robert Cotton's house with old Cambden, he saw in a
vision his eldest son, then a young child and at London, appear unto him
with the mark of a bloody cross on his forehead, as if it had been cut
with a sword, at which amazed he prayed unto God, and in the morning he
came unto Mr Cambden's chamber to tell him, who persuaded him it was but
an apprehension, at which he should not be dejected. In the meantime
there came letters from his wife of the death of that boy in the plague.
He appeared to him, he said, of a manly shape, and of that growth he
thinks he shall be at the resurrection."

XLIV

QUEEN ULRICA AND THE COUNTESS STEENBOCK

"Court Records"

When Queen Ulrica was dead, her corpse was placed in the usual way in an
open coffin, in a room hung with black and lighted with numerous wax
candles; a company of the king's guards did duty in the ante-room. One
afternoon, the carriage of the Countess Steenbock, first lady of the
palace, and a particular favourite of the queen's, drove up from
Stockholm. The officers commanding the guard of honour went to meet the
countess, and conducted her from the carriage to the door of the room
where the dead queen lay, which she closed after her.

The long stay of the lady in the death-chamber caused some uneasiness;
but it was ascribed to the vehemence of her grief; and the officers on
duty, fearful of disturbing the further effusion of it by their
presence, left her alone with the corpse. At length, finding that she
did not return, they began to apprehend that some accident had befallen
her, and the captain of the guard opened the door. He instantly started
back, with a face of the utmost dismay. The other officers ran up, and
plainly perceived, through the half-open door, the deceased queen
standing upright in her coffin, and ardently embracing the countess. The
apparition seemed to move, and soon after became enveloped in a dense
smoke or vapour. When this had cleared away, the body of the queen lay
in the same position as before, but the countess was nowhere to be
found. In vain did they search that and the adjoining apartments, while
some of the party hastened to the door, thinking she must have passed
unobserved to her carriage; but neither carriage, horses, driver, or
footmen were to be seen. A messenger was quickly despatched with a
statement of this extraordinary circumstance to Stockholm, and there he
learnt that the Countess Steenbock had never quitted the capital, and
that she died at the very moment when she was seen in the arms of the
deceased queen.

XLV

DENIS MISANGER

"The Phantom World"

On Friday, the first day of May 1705, about five o'clock in the evening,
Denis Misanger de la Richardiere, eighteen years of age, was attacked
with an extraordinary malady, which began by a sort of lethargy. They
gave him every assistance that medicine and surgery could afford. He
fell afterwards into a kind of furor or convulsion, and they were
obliged to hold him, and have five or six persons to keep watch over
him, for fear that he should throw himself out of the windows, or break
his head against the wall. The emetic which they gave him made him throw
up a quantity of bile, and for four or five days he remained pretty
quiet.

At the end of the month of May, they sent him into the country, to take
the air; and some other circumstances occurred, so unusual, that they
judged he must be bewitched. And what confirmed this conjecture was,
that he never had any fever, and retained all his strength,
notwithstanding all the pains and violent remedies which he had been
made to take. They asked him if he had not had some dispute with a
shepherd or some other person suspected of sorcery, or malpractices.

He declared that on the 18th of April preceding, when he was going
through the village of Noysi on horseback for a ride, his horse stopped
short in the midst of the _Rue Feret_, opposite the chapel, and he could
not make him go forward, though he touched him several times with the
spur. There was a shepherd standing leaning against the chapel, with his
crook in his hand, and two black dogs at his side. This man said to him,
"Sir, I advise you to return home, for your horse will not go forward."
The young La Richardiere, continuing to spur his horse, said to the
shepherd, "I do not understand what you say." The shepherd replied, in a
low tone, "I will make you understand." In effect, the young man was
obliged to get down from his horse, and lead it back by the bridle to
his father's dwelling in the same village. Then the shepherd cast a
spell upon him, which was to take effect on the 1st of May, as was
afterwards known.

During this malady, they caused several masses to be said in different
places, especially at St Maur des Fosses, at St Amable, and at St
Esprit. Young La Richardiere was present at some of these masses which
were said at St Maur; but he declared that he should not be cured till
Friday, 26th June, on his return from St Maur. On entering his chamber,
the key of which he had in his pocket, he found there that shepherd,
seated in his armchair, with his crook, and his two black dogs. He was
the only person who saw him; none other in the house could perceive him.
He said even that this man was called Damis, although he did not
remember that anyone had before this revealed his name to him. He beheld
him all that day, and all the succeeding night. Towards six o'clock in
the evening, as he felt his usual sufferings, he fell on the ground,
exclaiming that the shepherd was upon him, and crushing him; at the same
time he drew his knife, and aimed five blows at the shepherd's face, of
which he retained the marks. The invalid told those who were watching
over him that he was going to be very faint at five different times, and
begged of them to help him, and move him violently. The thing happened
as he had predicted.

On Friday, the 26th June, M. de la Richardiere, having gone to the mass
at St Maur, asserted that he should be cured on that day. After mass,
the priest put the stole upon his head, and recited the Gospel of St
John, during which prayer the young man saw St Maur standing, and the
unhappy shepherd at his left, with his face bleeding from the five
knife-wounds which he had given him. At that moment the youth cried out,
unintentionally, "A miracle! a miracle!" and asserted that he was cured,
as in fact he was.

On the 29th of June, the same M. de la Richardiere returned to Noysi,
and amused himself with shooting. As he was shooting in the vineyards,
the shepherd presented himself before him; he hit him on the head with
the butt-end of his gun. The shepherd cried out, "Sir, you are killing
me!" and fled. The next day this man presented himself again before him,
and asked his pardon, saying, "I am called Damis; it was I who cast a
spell over you which was to have lasted a year. By the aid of masses and
prayers which have been said for you, you have been cured at the end of
eight weeks. But the charm has fallen back upon myself, and I can be
cured of it only by a miracle. I implore you then to pray for me."

During all these reports, the _marechaussee_ had set off in pursuit of
the shepherd; but he escaped them, having killed his two dogs and thrown
away his crook. On Sunday, the 13th of September, he came to M. de la
Richardiere, and related to him his adventure; that after having passed
twenty years without approaching the sacraments, God had given him grace
to confess himself at Troyes; and that after divers delays he had been
admitted to the holy communion. Eight days after, M. de la Richardiere
received a letter from a woman who said she was a relation of the
shepherd's, informing him of his death, and begging him to cause a
requiem mass to be said for him, which was done.

XLVI

THE PIED PIPER

"The Phantom World"

The following instance is so extraordinary, that I should not repeat it
if the account were not attested by more than one writer, and also
preserved in the public monuments of a considerable town of Upper
Saxony; this town is Hamelin in the principality of Kalenberg, at the
confluence of the rivers Hamel and Weser.

In the year 1384, this town was infested by such a prodigious multitude
of rats, that they ravaged all the corn which was laid up in the
granaries; everything was employed that art and experience could invent
to chase them away, and whatever is usually employed against this kind
of animals. At that time there came to the town an unknown person, of
taller stature than ordinary, dressed in a robe of divers colours, who
engaged to deliver them from that scourge, for a certain recompense
which was agreed upon.

Then he drew from his sleeve a flute, at the sound of which all the rats
came out of their holes and followed him; he led them straight to the
river, into which they ran and were drowned. On his return he asked for
the promised reward, which was refused him, apparently on account of the
facility with which he had exterminated the rats. The next day, which
was a fete day, he chose the moment when the older inhabitants were at
church, and by means of another flute which he began to play, all the
boys in the town above the age of fourteen, to the number of a hundred
and thirty, assembled round him; he led them to the neighbouring
mountain, named Kopfelberg, under which is a sewer for the town, and
where criminals are executed; these boys disappeared and were never seen
afterwards.

A young girl, who had followed at a distance, was witness of the matter,
and brought the news of it to the town.

XLVII

JEANNE D'ARC

FERRIER'S "Apparitions"

Upon her trial, as it is repeated by Chartier, she spoke with the utmost
simplicity and firmness of her visions: "Que souvent alloit a une belle
fontaine au pays de Lorraine, laquelle elle nommoit bonne fontaine aux
Fees Nostre Seigneur, at en icelluy lieu tous ceulx de pays quand ils
avoient fiebvre ils alloient pour recouvrer garison; et la alloit
souvent ladite Jehanne la Pucelle sous un grand arbre qui la fontaine
ombroit; et s'apparurent a elle Ste Katerine et Ste Marguerite qui lui
dirent qu'elle allast a ung Cappitaine qu'elles lui nommerent, laquelle
y alla sans prendre conge ni a pere ni a mere; lequel Cappitaine la
vestit en guise d'homme et l'armoit et lui ceint l'epee, et luy bailla
un escuyer et quatre varlets; et en ce point fut montee sur un bon
cheval; et en ce point vint aut Roy de France, et lui dit que du
Commandement de lui estoit venue a lui, et qu'elle le feroit le plus
grand Seigneur du Monde, et qu'il fut ordonne que tretou ceulx qui lui
desobeiroient fussent occis sans mercy, et que St Michel et plusieurs
anges lui avoient baille une Couronne moult riche pour lui."

XLVIII

ANNE WALKER

Local Records

In the year 1680, at Lumley, a hamlet near Chester-le-Street in the
county of Durham, there lived one Walker, a man well to do in the world,
and a widower. A young relation of his, whose name was Anne Walker, kept
his house, to the great scandal of the neighbourhood, and that with but
too good cause. A few weeks before this young woman expected to become a
mother, Walker placed her with her aunt, one Dame Clare, in
Chester-le-Street, and promised to take care both of her and her future
child. One evening in the end of November, this man, in company with
Mark Sharp, an acquaintance of his, came to Dame Clare's door, and told
her that they had made arrangements for removing her niece to a place
where she could remain in safety till her confinement was over. They
would not say where it was; but as Walker bore, in most respects, an
excellent character, she was allowed to go with him; and he professed to
have sent her off with Sharp into Lancashire. Fourteen days after, one
Graeme, a fuller, who lived about six miles from Lumley, had been
engaged till past midnight in his mill; and on going downstairs to go
home, in the middle of the ground floor he saw a woman, with dishevelled
hair, covered with blood, and having five large wounds on her head.
Graeme, on recovering a little from his first terror, demanded what the
spectre wanted. "I," said the apparition, "am the spirit of Anne
Walker"; and proceeded accordingly to tell Graeme the particulars which
I have already related to you. "When I was sent away with Mark Sharp, he
slew me on such a moor," naming one that Graeme knew, "with a collier's
pick, threw my body into a coal-pit, and hid the pick under the bank;
and his shoes and stockings, which were covered with blood, he left in a
stream." The apparition proceeded to tell Graeme that he must give
information of this to the nearest justice of peace, and that till this
was done, he must look to be continually haunted. Graeme went home very
sad; he dared not bring such a charge against a man of so unimpeachable
a character as Walker; and yet he as little dared to incur the anger of
the spirit that had appeared to him. So, as all weak minds will do, he
went on procrastinating; only he took care to leave his mill early, and
while in it never to be alone. Notwithstanding this caution on his part,
one night, just as it began to be dark, the apparition met him again in
a more terrible shape, and with every circumstance of indignation. Yet
he did not even then fulfil its injunction; till on St Thomas's eve, as
he was walking in his garden just after sunset, it threatened him so
effectually that in the morning he went to a magistrate and revealed the
whole thing. The place was examined; the body and the pickaxe found; and
a warrant was granted against Walker and Sharp. They were, however,
admitted to bail; but in August, 1681, their trial came on before Judge
Davenport at Durham. Meanwhile the whole circumstances were known over
all the north of England, and the greatest interest was excited by the
case. Against Sharp the fact was strong, that his shoes and stockings,
covered with blood, were found in the place where the murder had been
committed; but against Walker, except the account received from the
ghost, there seemed not a shadow of evidence. Nevertheless the judge
summed up strongly against the prisoners, the jury found them guilty,
and the judge pronounced sentence upon them that night, a thing which
was unknown in Durham, either before or after. The prisoners were
executed, and both died professing their innocence to the last. Judge
Davenport was much agitated during the trial; and it was believed, says
the historian, that the spirit had also appeared to him, as if to supply
in his mind the want of legal evidence. This case is certainly a solemn
illustration of the mal-administration of justice in an ancient court;
yet the circumstantial evidence, arising from the appearance of the
spirit, appears very strong--the finding of the body, and the boots and
stockings. Yet we need perhaps to live more immediately within the
circle of the circumstance to pronounce upon it. None of us, however,
reading this book, would like to take upon ourselves the responsibility
of those daring jurymen, who durst venture to throw away life upon
evidence which, strong as it appears to have been, did not come to them,
but only to one who had borne witness to them.

XLIX

THE HAND OF GLORY

HENDERSON'S "Folk Lore"

One evening, between the years 1790 and 1800, a traveller, dressed in
woman's clothes, arrived at the Old Spital Inn, the place where the mail
coach changed horses, in High Spital, on Bowes Moor. The traveller
begged to stay all night, but had to go away so early in the morning
that if a mouthful of food were set ready for breakfast there was no
need the family should be disturbed by her departure. The people of the
house, however, arranged that a servant maid should sit up till the
stranger was out of the premises, and then went to bed themselves. The
girl lay down for a nap on the longsettle by the fire, but before she
shut her eyes she took a good look at the traveller, who was sitting on
the opposite side of the hearth, and espied a pair of man's trousers
peeping out from under the gown. All inclination for sleep was now gone;
however, with great self-command, she feigned it, closed her eyes, and
even began to snore. On this the traveller got up, pulled out of his
pocket a dead man's hand, fitted a candle to it, lighted the candle, and
passed hand and candle several times before the servant girl's face,
saying as he did so: "Let those who are asleep be asleep, and let those
who are awake be awake." This done, he placed the light on the table,
opened the outer door, went down two or three of the steps which led
from the house to the road, and began to whistle for his companions. The
girl (who had hitherto had presence of mind enough to remain perfectly
quiet) now jumped up, rushed behind the ruffian, and pushed him down
the steps. She then shut the door, locked it, and ran upstairs to try
and wake the family, but without success: calling, shouting, and shaking
were alike in vain. The poor girl was in despair, for she heard the
traveller and his comrades outside the house. So she ran down again,
seized a bowl of blue (_i.e._ skimmed milk), and threw it over the hand
and candle; after which she went upstairs again, and awoke the sleepers
without any difficulty. The landlord's son went to the window, and asked
the men outside what they wanted. They answered that if the dead man's
hand were but given them, they would go away quietly, and do no harm to
anyone. This he refused, and fired among them, and the shot must have
taken effect, for in the morning stains of blood were traced to a
considerable distance.

These circumstances were related to my informant, Mr Charles Wastell, in
the spring of 1861, by an old woman named Bella Parkin, who resided
close to High Spital, and was actually the daughter of the courageous
servant-girl.

It is interesting to compare them with the following narrations,
communicated to me by the Rev. S. Baring Gould:--"Two magicians having
come to lodge in a public-house with a view to robbing it, asked
permission to pass the night by the fire, and obtained it. When the
house was quiet, the servant-girl, suspecting mischief, crept downstairs
and looked through the keyhole. She saw the men open a sack, and take
out a dry, withered hand. They anointed the fingers with some unguent,
and lighted them. Each finger flamed, but the thumb they could not
light; that was because one of the household was not asleep. The girl
hastened to her master, but found it impossible to arouse him. She tried
every other sleeper, but could not break the charmed sleep. At last,
stealing down into the kitchen, while the thieves were busy over her
master's strong box, she secured the hand, blew out the flames, and at
once the whole household was aroused."[14]

But the next story bears a closer resemblance to the Stainmore
narrative. One dark night, when all was shut up, there came a tap at the
door of a lone inn in the middle of a barren moor. The door was opened,
and there stood without, shivering and shaking, a poor beggar, his rags
soaked with rain, and his hands white with cold. He asked piteously for
a lodging, and it was cheerfully granted him; there was not a spare bed
in the house, but he could lie on the mat before the kitchen fire, and
welcome.

So this was settled, and everyone in the house went to bed except the
cook, who from the back kitchen could see into the large room through a
pane of glass let into the door. She watched the beggar, and saw him, as
soon as he was left alone, draw himself up from the floor, seat himself
at the table, extract from his pocket a brown withered human hand, and
set it upright in the candlestick. He then anointed the fingers, and
applying a match to them, they began to flame. Filled with horror, the
cook rushed up the back stairs, and endeavoured to arouse her master and
the men of the house. But all was in vain--they slept a charmed sleep;
so in despair she hastened down again, and placed herself at her post of
observation.

She saw the fingers of the hand flaming, but the thumb remained
unlighted, because one inmate of the house was awake. The beggar was
busy collecting the valuables around him into a large sack, and having
taken all he cared for in the large room, he entered another. On this
the woman ran in, and, seizing the light, tried to extinguish the
flames. But this was not so easy. She blew at them, but they burnt on as
before. She poured the dregs of a beer-jug over them, but they blazed
up the brighter. As a last resource, she caught up a jug of milk, and
dashed it over the four lambent flames, and they died out at once.
Uttering a loud cry, she rushed to the door of the apartment the beggar
had entered, and locked it. The whole family was aroused, and the thief
easily secured and hanged. This tale is told in Northumberland.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 14: Delrio. See also Thorpe's _Mythology_, vol. iii. p. 274.]

L

THE BLOODY FOOTSTEP

Local Records

On the threshold of one of the doors of Smithills Hall there is a bloody
footstep impressed into the door-step, and ruddy as if the bloody foot
had just trodden there; and it is averred that, on a certain night of
the year, and at a certain hour of the night, if you go and look at the
door-step you will see the mark wet with fresh blood. Some have
pretended to say that this appearance of blood was but dew; but can dew
redden a cambric handkerchief? Will it crimson the finger-tips when you
touch it? And that is what the bloody footstep will surely do when the
appointed night and hour come round....

It is needless to tell you all the strange stories that have survived to
this day about the old Hall, and how it is believed that the master of
it, owing to his ancient science, has still a sort of residence there
and control of the place, and how in one of the chambers there is still
his antique table, and his chair, and some rude old instruments and
machinery, and a book, and everything in readiness, just as if he might
still come back to finish some experiment.... One of the chief things to
which the old lord applied himself was to discover the means of
prolonging his own life, so that its duration should be indefinite, if
not infinite; and such was his science that he was believed to have
attained this magnificent and awful purpose....

The object of the Lord of Smithills Hall was to take a life from the
course of Nature, and Nature did not choose to be defrauded; so that,
great as was the power of this scientific man over her, she would not
consent that he should escape the necessity of dying at his proper time,
except upon condition of sacrificing some other life for his; and this
was to be done once for every thirty years that he chose to live, thirty
years being the account of a generation of man; and if in any way, in
that time, this lord could be the death of a human being, that satisfied
the requisition, and he might live on....

There was but one human being whom he cared for--that was a beautiful
kinswoman, an orphan, whom his father had brought up, and dying, left to
his care.... He saw that she, if anyone, was to be the person whom the
sacrifice demanded, and that he might kill twenty others without effect,
but if he took the life of this one it would make the charm strong and
good.... He did slay this pure young girl; he took her into the wood
near the house, an old wood that is standing yet, with some of its
magnificent oaks, and there he plunged a dagger into her heart....

He buried her in the wood, and returned to the house; and, as it
happened, he had set his right foot in her blood, and his shoe was wet
in it, and by some miraculous fate it left a track all along the
wood-path, and into the house, and on the stone steps of the threshold,
and up into his chamber. The servants saw it the next day, and wondered,
and whispered, and missed the fair young girl, and looked askance at
their lord's right foot, and turned pale, all of them....

Next, the legend says, that Sir Forrester was struck with horror at what
he had done ... and fled from his old Hall, and was gone full many a
day. But all the while he was gone there was the mark of a bloody
footstep impressed upon the stone door-step of the Hall.... The legend
says that wherever Sir Forrester went, in his wanderings about the
world, he left a bloody track behind him.... Once he went to the King's
Court, and, there being a track up to the very throne, the King frowned
upon him, so that he never came there any more. Nobody could tell how it
happened; his foot was not seen to bleed, only there was the bloody
track behind him....

At last this unfortunate lord deemed it best to go back to his own Hall,
where, living among faithful old servants born in the family, he could
hush the matter up better than elsewhere.... So home he came, and there
he saw the bloody track on the door-step, and dolefully went into the
Hall, and up the stairs, an old servant ushering him into his chamber,
and half a dozen others following him behind, gazing, shuddering,
pointing with quivering fingers, looking horror-stricken in one
another's pale faces....

By and by he vanished from the old Hall, but not by death; for, from
generation to generation, they say that a bloody track is seen around
that house, and sometimes it is traced up into the chambers, so fresh
that you see he must have passed a short time before.

This is the legend of the Bloody Footstep, which I myself have seen at
the Hall door.

LI

THE GHOSTLY WARRIORS OF WORMS

"The Phantom World"

The abbot of Ursperg, in his Chronicle, year 1123, says that in the
territory of Worms they saw during many days a multitude of armed men,
on foot and on horseback, going and coming with great noise, like people
who are going to a solemn assembly. Every day they marched, towards the
hour of noon, to a mountain, which appeared to be their place of
rendezvous. Someone in the neighbourhood, bolder than the rest, having
guarded himself with the sign of the cross, approached one of these
armed men, conjuring him in the name of God, to declare the meaning of
this army, and their design. The soldier or phantom replied, "We are not
what you imagine; we are neither vain phantoms nor true soldiers, we are
the spirits of those who were killed on this spot a long time ago. The
arms and horses which you behold are the instruments of our punishment,
as they were of our sins. We are all on fire, though you can see nothing
about us which appears inflamed." It is said that they remarked in this
company the Count Emico, who had been killed a few years before, and who
declared that he might be extricated from that state by alms and
prayers.

LII

THE WANDERING JEW IN ENGLAND

"Notes and Queries"

When on the weary way to Golgotha, Christ fainting, and overcome under
the burden of the cross, asked Salathiel, as he was standing at his
door, for a cup of water to cool His parched throat, he spurned the
supplication, and bade Him on the faster.

"I go," said the Saviour, "but thou shalt thirst and tarry till I come."

And ever since then, by day and night, through the long centuries he has
been doomed to wander about the earth, ever craving for water, and ever
expecting the day of judgment which shall end his toils:

    "Mais toujours le soleil se leve,
        Toujours, toujours
    Tourne la terre ou moi je cours,
    Toujours, toujours, toujours, toujours!"

Sometimes, during the cold winter nights, the lonely cottager will be
awoke by a plaintive demand for "Water, good Christian! water for the
love of God!" And if he looks out into the moonlight, he will see a
venerable old man in antique raiment, with grey flowing beard, and a
tall staff, who beseeches his charity with the most earnest gesture. Woe
to the churl who refuses him water or shelter. My old nurse, who was a
Warwickshire woman, and, as Sir Walter said of his grandmother, "a most
_awfu' le'er_," knew a man who boldly cried out, "All very fine, Mr
Ferguson, but you can't lodge here." And it was decidedly the worst
thing he ever did in his life, for his best mare fell dead lame, and
corn went down, I am afraid to say how much per quarter. If, on the
contrary, you treat him well, and refrain from indelicate inquiries
respecting his age--on which point he is very touchy--his visit is sure
to bring good luck. Perhaps years afterwards, when you are on your
death-bed, he may happen to be passing; and if he _should_, you are
safe; for three knocks with his staff will make you hale, and he never
forgets any kindnesses. Many stories are current of his wonderful cures;
but there is one to be found in Peck's _History of Stamford_ which
possesses the rare merit of being written by the patient himself. Upon
Whitsunday, in the year of our Lord 1658, "about six of the clock, just
after evensong," one Samuel Wallis, of Stamford, who had been long
wasted with a lingering consumption, was sitting by the fire, reading in
that delectable book called _Abraham's Suit for Sodom_. He heard a knock
at the door; and, as his nurse was absent, he crawled to open it
himself. What he saw there, Samuel shall say in his own style:--"I
beheld a proper, tall, grave old man. Thus he said: 'Friend, I pray
thee, give an old pilgrim a cup of small beere!' And I said, 'Sir, I
pray you, come in and welcome.' And he said, 'I am no Sir, therefore
call me not Sir; but come in I must, for I cannot pass by thy doore.'"

After finishing the beer: "Friend," he said, "thou art not well." "I
said, 'No, truly Sir, I have not been well this many yeares.' He said,
'What is thy disease?' I said, 'A deep consumption, Sir; our doctors
say, past cure: for, truly, I am a very poor man, and not able to follow
doctors' councell.' 'Then,' said he, 'I will tell thee what thou shalt
do; and, by the help and power of Almighty God above, thou shalt be
well. To-morrow, when thou risest up, go into thy garden, and get there
two leaves of red sage, and one of bloodworte, and put them into a cup
of thy small beere. Drink as often as need require, and when the cup is
empty fill it again, and put in fresh leaves every fourth day, and thou
shalt see, through our Lord's great goodness and mercy, before twelve
dayes shall be past, thy disease shall be cured and thy body altered.'"

After this simple prescription, Wallis pressed him to eat: "But he said,
'No, friend, I will not eat; the Lord Jesus is sufficient for me. Very
seldom doe I drinke any beere neither, but that which comes from the
rocke. So, friend, the Lord God be with thee.'"

So saying, he departed, and was never more heard of; but the patient got
well within the given time, and for many a long day there was war hot
and fierce among the divines of Stamford, as to whether the stranger was
an angel or a devil. His dress has been minutely described by honest
Sam. His coat was purple, and buttoned down to the waist; "his britches
of the same couler, all new to see to"; his stockings were very white,
but whether linen or jersey, deponent knoweth not; his beard and head
were white, and he had a white stick in his hand. The day was rainy from
morning to night, "but he had not one spot of dirt upon his cloathes."

Aubrey gives an almost exactly similar relation, the scene of which he
places in the Staffordshire Moorlands. The Jew there appears in a
"purple shag gown," and prescribes balm-leaves.

LIII

BENDITH EU MAMMAU[15]

By EDMUND JONES

They appeared diverse ways, but their most frequent way of appearing was
like dancing-companies with musick, or in the form of funerals. When
they appeared like dancing-companies, they were desirous to entice
persons into their company, and some were drawn among them and remained
among them some time, usually a whole year; as did Edmund William Rees,
a man whom I well knew, and was a neighbour, who came back at the year's
end, and looked very bad. But either they were not able to give much
account of themselves, or they durst not give it, only said they had
been dancing, and that the time was short. But there were some others
who went with them at night, and returned sometimes at night, and
sometimes the next morning; especially those persons who took upon them
to cure the hurts received from the fairies, as Charles Hugh of Coed yr
Pame, in Langybi parish, and Rissiart Cap Dee, of Aberystruth; for the
former of these must certainly converse with them, for how else could he
declare the words which his visitors had spoken a day or days before
they came to him, to their great surprise and wonder?

And as for Rissiart Cap Dee, so called because he wore a black cap, it
is said of him that when he lodged in some houses to cure those who
were hurt by the fairies, he would suddenly rise up in the night, and
make a very hasty preparation to go downstairs; which when one person
observ'd, he said, "Go softly, Uncle Richard, least you fall": he made
answer, "O, here are some to receive me." But when he was called to one
person, who had inadvertently fallen among the fairies, and had been
greatly hurt by them, and kept his bed upon it, whose relations had sent
for the said Rissiart Cap Dee to cure him; who, when he came up to the
sick man's chamber, the sick man took up a pound-weight stone, which was
by the bed-side, and threw it at the infernal charmer with all his
might, saying, "Thou old villain, wast one of the worst of them to hurt
me!" for he had seen him among them acting his part against him; upon
which the old charmer went away muttering some words of malevolence
against him. He lived at the foot of Rhyw Coelbren, and there was a
large hole in the side of the thatch of his house, thro' which the
people believed he went out at night to the fairies, and came in from
them at night; but he pretended it was that he might see the stars at
night. The house is down long ago. He lived by himself, as did the
before-mentioned Charles Hugh, who was very famous in the county for his
cures, and knowledge of things at a distance; which he could not
possibly know without conversing with evil spirits, who walked the earth
to and fro. He is yet said to be an affable, friendly man, and cheerful;
'tis then a pity he should be in alliance with hell, and an agent in the
kingdom of darkness.

I will only give one instance of his knowledge of things at a distance,
and of secret things. Henry John Thomas, of the parish of Aberystruth, a
relation of mine, an honest man, went with the water of a young woman
whom he courted, and was sick, to the said Charles Hugh, who, as soon as
he saw Henry John, pleasantly told him, "Ho! you come with your
sweetheart's water to me." And he told him the very words which they
had spoken together in a secret place, and described the place where
they spoke. It was the general opinion in times past, when these things
were very frequent, that the fairies knew whatever was spoken in the air
without the houses, not so much what was spoken in the houses. I suppose
they chiefly knew what was spoken in the air at night. It was also said
they rather appeared to an uneven number of persons, to one, three,
five, &c.; and oftener to men than to women. Thomas William Edmund, of
Havodavel, an honest, pious man, who often saw them, declared that they
appeared with one bigger than the rest, going before them in the
company.

But they very often appeared in the form of a funeral before the death
of many persons, with a bier and a black cloth, in the midst of a
company about it, on every side, before and after it. The instances of
this were so numerous, that it is plain, and past all dispute, that they
infallibly foreknew the time of men's death: the difficulty is, whence
they had this knowledge. It cannot be supposed that either God Himself,
or His angels, discovered this to these spirits of darkness. For _the
secrets of the Lord are with those that fear Him_, not with His enemies.
Psalm xxv. 14. They must therefore have this knowledge from the position
of the stars at the time of birth, and their influence, which they
perfectly understand beyond what mortal men can do. We have a constant
proof of this in the corps candles, whose appearance is an infallible
sign that death will follow, and they never fail going the way that the
corps will go to be buried, be the way ever so unlikely that it should
go through. But to give some instances in Aberystruth Parish.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 15: _A Geographical, Historical, and Religious Account of the
Parish of Aberystruth, in the County of Monmouth. To which are added,
Memoirs of several persons of Note, who lived in the said Parish._ By
Edmund Jones. Trevecka: printed in the Year 1779.]

LIV

THE RED BOOK OF APPIN

CAMPBELL'S "Tales of the West Highlands"

Once upon a time, there lived a man at Appin, Argyllshire, and he took
to his house an orphan boy. When the boy was grown up, he was sent to
herd; and upon a day of days, and him herding, there came a fine
gentleman where he was, who asked him to become his servant, and that he
would give him plenty to eat and drink, clothes, and great wages. The
boy told him that he would like very much to get a good suit of clothes,
but that he would not engage till he would see his master; but the fine
gentleman would have him engaged without any delay; this the boy would
not do upon any terms till he would see his master. "Well," says the
gentleman, "in the meantime write your name in this book." Saying this,
he puts his hand into his oxter pocket, and pulling out a large red
book, he told the boy to write his name in the book. This the boy would
not do; neither would he tell his name, till he would acquaint his
master first. "Now," says the gentleman, "since you will neither engage,
or tell your name, till you see your present master, be sure to meet me
about sunset to-morrow, at a certain place?" The boy promised that he
would be sure to meet him at the place about sunsetting. When the boy
came home he told his master what the gentleman said to him. "Poor boy,"
says he, "a fine master he would make; lucky for you that you neither
engaged nor wrote your name in his book; but since you promised to meet
him, you must go; but as you value your life, do as I tell you." His
master gave him a sword, and at the same time he told him to be sure to
be at the place mentioned a while before sunset, and to draw a circle
round himself with the point of the sword in the name of Trinity. "When
you do this, draw a cross in the centre of the circle, upon which you
will stand yourself; and do not move out of that position till the
rising of the sun next morning." He also told him that he would wish him
to come out of the circle to put his name in the book; but that upon no
account he was to leave the circle; "but ask the book till you would
write your name yourself, and when once you get hold of the book keep
it, he cannot touch a hair of your head, if you keep inside the circle."

So the boy was at the place long before the gentleman made his
appearance; but sure enough he came after sunset; he tried all his arts
to get the boy outside the circle, to sign his name in the red book, but
the boy would not move one foot out from where he stood; but, at the
long last, he handed the book to the boy, so as to write his name
therein. The book was no sooner inside the circle than it fell out of
the gentleman's hand inside the circle; the boy cautiously stretched out
his hand for the book, and as soon as he got hold of it, he put it in
his oxter. When the fine gentleman saw that he did not mean to give him
back the book, he got furious; and at last he transformed himself into
great many likenesses, blowing fire and brimstone out of his mouth and
nostrils; at times he would appear as a horse, other times a huge cat,
and a fearful beast (uille bbeast); he was going round the circle the
length of the night; when day was beginning to break he let out one
fearful screech; he put himself in the shape of a large raven, and he
was soon out of the boy's sight. The boy still remained where he was
till he saw the sun in the morning, which no sooner he observed, than he
took to his soles home as fast as he could. He gave the book to his
master; and this is how the far-famed red book of Appin was got.

LV

THE GOOD O'DONOGHUE

Irish Folk Tales

In an age so distant that the precise period is unknown, a chieftain
named O'Donoghue ruled over the country which surrounds the romantic
Lough Lean, now called the Lake of Killarney. Wisdom, beneficence, and
justice distinguished his reign, and the prosperity and happiness of his
subjects were their natural results. He is said to have been as renowned
for his warlike exploits as for his pacific virtues; and as a proof that
his domestic administration was not the less rigorous because it was
mild, a rocky island is pointed out to strangers, called "O'Donoghue's
Prison," in which this prince once confined his own son for some act of
disorder and disobedience.

His end--for it cannot correctly be called his death--was singular and
mysterious. At one of those splendid feasts for which his court was
celebrated, surrounded by the most distinguished of his subjects, he was
engaged in a prophetic relation of the events which were to happen in
ages yet to come. His auditors listened, now rapt in wonder, now fired
with indignation, burning with shame, or melted into sorrow, as he
faithfully detailed the heroism, the injuries, the crimes, and the
miseries of their descendants. In the midst of his predictions he rose
slowly from his seat, advanced with a solemn, measured, and majestic
tread to the shore of the lake, and walked forward composedly upon its
unyielding surface. When he had nearly reached the centre he paused for
a moment, then, turning slowly round, looked toward his friends, and
waving his arms to them with the cheerful air of one taking a short
farewell, disappeared from their view.

The memory of the good O'Donoghue has been cherished by successive
generations with affectionate reverence; and it is believed that at
sunrise, on every May-day morning, the anniversary of his departure, he
revisits his ancient domains: a favoured few only are in general
permitted to see him, and this distinction is always an omen of good
fortune to the beholders; when it is granted to many it is a sure token
of an abundant harvest--a blessing, the want of which during this
prince's reign was never felt by his people.

Some years have elapsed since the last appearance of O'Donoghue. The
April of that year had been remarkably wild and stormy; but on
May-morning the fury of the elements had altogether subsided. The air
was hushed and still; and the sky, which was reflected in the serene
lake, resembled a beautiful but deceitful countenance, whose smiles,
after the most tempestuous emotions, tempt the stranger to believe that
it belongs to a soul which no passion has ever ruffled.

The first beams of the rising sun were just gilding the lofty summit of
Glenaa, when the waters near the eastern shore of the lake became
suddenly and violently agitated, though all the rest of its surface lay
smooth and still as a tomb of polished marble, the next morning a
foaming wave darted forward, and, like a proud high-crested war-horse,
exulting in his strength, rushed across the lake toward Toomies
mountain. Behind this wave appeared a stately warrior fully armed,
mounted upon a milk-white steed; his snowy plume waved gracefully from a
helmet of polished steel, and at his back fluttered a light blue scarf.
The horse, apparently exulting in his noble burden, sprung after the
wave along the water, which bore him up like firm earth, while showers
of spray that glittered brightly in the morning sun were dashed up at
every bound.

The warrior was O'Donoghue; he was followed by numberless youths and
maidens, who moved lightly and unconstrained over the watery plain, as
the moonlight fairies glide through the fields of air; they were linked
together by garlands of delicious spring flowers, and they timed their
movements to strains of enchanting melody. When O'Donoghue had nearly
reached the western side of the lake, he suddenly turned his steed, and
directed his course along the wood-fringed shore of Glenaa, preceded by
the huge wave that curled and foamed up as high as the horse's neck,
whose fiery nostrils snorted above it. The long train of attendants
followed with playful deviations the track of their leader, and moved on
with unabated fleetness to their celestial music, till gradually, as
they entered the narrow strait between Glenaa and Dinis, they became
involved in the mists which still partially floated over the lake, and
faded from the view of the wondering beholders: but the sound of their
music still fell upon the ear, and echo, catching up the harmonious
strains, fondly repeated and prolonged them in soft and softer tones,
till the last faint repetition died away, and the hearers awoke as from
a dream of bliss.

LVI

SARAH POLGRAIN

By WILLIAM HUNT

A woman, who had lived in Ludgvan, was executed at Bodmin for the murder
of her husband. There was but little doubt that she had been urged on to
the diabolical deed by a horse-dealer, known as Yorkshire Jack, with
whom, for a long period, she was generally supposed to have been
criminally acquainted.

Now, it will be remembered that this really happened within the present
century. One morning, during my residence in Penzance, an old woman from
Ludgvan called on me with some trifling message. While she was waiting
for my answer, I made some ordinary remark about the weather.

"It's all owing to Sarah Polgrain," said she.

"Sarah Polgrain," said I; "and who is Sarah Polgrain?"

Then the voluble old lady told me the whole story of the poisoning with
which we need not, at present, concern ourselves. By and by the tale
grew especially interesting, and there I resume it.

Sarah had begged that Yorkshire Jack might accompany her to the scaffold
when she was led forth to execution. This was granted; and on the
dreadful morning there stood this unholy pair, the fatal beam on which
the woman's body was in a few minutes to swing, before them.

They kissed each other, and whispered words passed between them.

The executioner intimated that the moment of execution had arrived, and
that they must part. Sarah Polgrain, looking earnestly into the man's
eyes, said:

"You will?"

Yorkshire Jack replied, "I will!" and they separated. The man retired
amongst the crowd, the woman was soon a dead corpse, pendulating in the
wind.

Years passed on, Yorkshire Jack was never the same man as before, his
whole bearing was altered. His bold, his dashing air deserted him. He
walked, or rather wandered, slowly about the streets of the town, or the
lanes of the country. He constantly moved his head from side to side,
looking first over one, and then over the other shoulder, as though
dreading that someone was following him.

The stout man became thin, his ruddy cheeks more pale, and his eyes
sunken.

At length he disappeared, and it was discovered--for Yorkshire Jack had
made a confidant of some Ludgvan man--that he had pledged himself,
"living or dead, to become the husband of Sarah Polgrain, after the
lapse of years."

To escape, if possible, from himself, Jack had gone to sea in the
merchant service.

Well, the period had arrived when this unholy promise was to be
fulfilled. Yorkshire Jack was returning from the Mediterranean in a
fruit-ship. He was met by the devil and Sarah Polgrain far out at sea,
off the Land's End. Jack would not accompany them willingly, so they
followed the ship for days, during all which time she was involved in a
storm. Eventually Jack was washed from the deck by such a wave as the
oldest sailor had never seen; and presently, amidst loud thunders and
flashing lightnings, riding as it were in a black cloud, three figures
were seen passing onward. These were the devil, Sarah Polgrain, and
Yorkshire Jack; and this was the cause of the storm.

"It is all true, as you may learn if you will inquire," said the old
woman; "for many of her kin live in Churchtown."

LVII

ELEANOR COBHAM, DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER

GODWIN'S "Lives of the Necromancers"

This was a period in which the ideas of witchcraft had caught fast hold
of the minds of mankind; and those accusations, which by the enlightened
part of the species would now be regarded as worthy only of contempt,
were then considered as charges of the most flagitious nature. While
John, Duke of Bedford, the eldest uncle of King Henry VI., was regent of
France, Humphrey of Gloucester, next brother to Bedford, was Lord
Protector of the realm of England. Though Henry was now nineteen years
of age, yet as he was a prince of slender capacity, Humphrey still
continued to discharge the functions of sovereignty. He was eminently
endowed with popular qualities, and was a favourite with the majority of
the nation. He had, however, many enemies, one of the chief of whom was
Henry Beaufort, great-uncle to the king, and Cardinal of Winchester. One
of the means employed by this prelate to undermine the power of
Humphrey, consisted in a charge of witchcraft brought against Eleanor
Cobham, his wife.

This woman had probably yielded to the delusions which artful persons,
who saw into the weakness of her character, sought to practise upon her.
She was the second wife of Humphrey, and he was suspected to have
indulged in undue familiarity with her before he was a widower. His
present duchess was reported to have had recourse to witchcraft in the
first instance, by way of securing his wayward inclinations. The Duke of
Bedford had died in 1435; and Humphrey now, in addition to the actual
exercise of the powers of sovereignty, was next heir to the crown in
case of the king's decease. This weak and licentious woman, being now
Duchess of Gloucester, and wife to the Lord Protector, directed her
ambition to the higher title and prerogatives of a queen, and, by way of
feeding her evil passions, called to her counsels Margery Jourdain,
commonly called the Witch of Eye, Roger Bolingbroke, an astrologer and
supposed magician, Thomas Southwel, Canon of St Stephen's, and one John
Hume, or Hun, a priest. These persons frequently met the duchess in
secret cabal. They were accused of calling up spirits from the infernal
world; and they made an image of wax, which they slowly consumed before
a fire, expecting that, as the image gradually wasted away, so the
constitution and life of the poor king would decay and finally perish.

Hume, or Hun, is supposed to have turned informer, and upon his
information several of these persons were taken into custody. After
previous examination, on the 25th of July 1441, Bolingbroke was placed
upon a scaffold before the cross of St Paul's, with a chair curiously
painted, which was supposed to be one of his implements of necromancy,
and dressed in mystical attire, and there, before the Archbishop of
Canterbury, the Cardinal of Winchester, and several other bishops, made
abjuration of all his unlawful arts.

A short time after, the Duchess of Gloucester having fled to the
sanctuary at Westminster, her case was referred to the same high
persons, and Bolingbroke was brought forth to give evidence against her.
She was of consequence committed to custody in the castle of Leeds, near
Maidstone, to take her trial in the month of October. A commission was
directed to the lord treasurer, several noblemen, and certain judges of
both benches, to inquire into all manner of treasons, sorceries, and
other things that might be hurtful to the king's person, and Bolingbroke
and Southwel as principals, and the Duchess of Gloucester as accessory,
were brought before them. Margery Jourdain was arraigned at the same
time; and she, as a witch and relapsed heretic, was condemned to be
burned in Smithfield. The Duchess of Gloucester was sentenced to do
penance on three several days, walking through the streets of London,
with a lighted taper in her hand, attended by the lord mayor, the
sheriffs, and a select body of the livery, and then to be banished for
life to the Isle of Man. Thomas Southwel died in prison; and Bolingbroke
was hanged at Tyburn on the 18th of November.

PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY NEILL AND CO., LTD., EDINBURGH.
