_UNCLE ABRAHAM'S ROMANCE._

"No, my dear," my Uncle Abraham answered me, "no--nothing romantic ever
happened to me--unless--but no: that wasn't romantic either----"

I was. To me, I being eighteen, romance was the world. My Uncle Abraham
was old and lame. I followed the gaze of his faded eyes, and my own
rested on a miniature that hung at his elbow-chair's right hand, a
portrait of a woman, whose loveliness even the miniature-painter's art
had been powerless to disguise--a woman with large lustrous eyes and
perfect oval face.

I rose to look at it. I had looked at it a hundred times. Often enough
in my baby days I had asked, "Who's that, uncle?" always receiving the
same answer: "A lady who died long ago, my dear."

As I looked again at the picture, I asked, "Was she like this?"

"Who?"

"Your--your romance!"

Uncle Abraham looked hard at me. "Yes," he said at last. "Very--very
like."

I sat down on the floor by him. "Won't you tell me about her?"

"There's nothing to tell," he said. "I think it was fancy, mostly, and
folly; but it's the realest thing in my long life, my dear."

A long pause. I kept silence. "Hurry no man's cattle" is a good motto,
especially with old people.

"I remember," he said in the dreamy tone always promising so well to the
ear that a story delighteth--"I remember, when I was a young man, I was
very lonely indeed. I never had a sweetheart. I was always lame, my
dear, from quite a boy; and the girls used to laugh at me."

He sighed. Presently he went on--

"And so I got into the way of mooning off by myself in lonely places,
and one of my favourite walks was up through our churchyard, which was
set high on a hill in the middle of the marsh country. I liked that
because I never met any one there. It's all over, years ago. I was a
silly lad; but I couldn't bear of a summer evening to hear a rustle and
a whisper from the other side of the hedge, or maybe a kiss as I went
by.

"Well, I used to go and sit all by myself in the churchyard, which was
always sweet with thyme, and quite light (on account of its being so
high) long after the marshes were dark. I used to watch the bats
flitting about in the red light, and wonder why God didn't make every
one's legs straight and strong, and wicked follies like that. But by the
time the light was gone I had always worked it off, so to speak, and
could go home quietly and say my prayers without any bitterness.

"Well, one hot night in August, when I had watched the sunset fade and
the crescent moon grow golden, I was just stepping over the low stone
wall of the churchyard when I heard a rustle behind me. I turned round,
expecting it to be a rabbit or a bird. It was a woman."

He looked at the portrait. So did I.

"Yes," he said, "that was her very face. I was a bit scared and said
something--I don't know what--and she laughed and said, 'Did I think she
was a ghost?' and I answered back, and I stayed talking to her over the
churchyard wall till 'twas quite dark, and the glowworms were out in the
wet grass all along the way home.

"Next night I saw her again; and the next night and the next. Always at
twilight time; and if I passed any lovers leaning on the stiles in the
marshes it was nothing to me now."

Again my uncle paused. "It's very long ago," he said slowly, "and I'm an
old man; but I know what youth means, and happiness, though I was
always lame, and the girls used to laugh at me. I don't know how long it
went on--you don't measure time in dreams--but at last your grandfather
said I looked as if I had one foot in the grave, and he would be sending
me to stay with our kin at Bath and take the waters. I had to go. I
could not tell my father why I would rather had died than go."

"What was her name, uncle?" I asked.

"She never would tell me her name, and why should she? I had names
enough in my heart to call her by. Marriage? My dear, even then I knew
marriage was not for me. But I met her night after night, always in our
churchyard where the yew-trees were and the lichened gravestones. It was
there we always met and always parted. The last time was the night
before I went away. She was very sad, and dearer than life itself. And
she said--

"'If you come back before the new moon I shall meet you here just as
usual. But if the new moon shines on this grave and you are not
here--you will never see me again any more.'

"She laid her hand on the yellow lichened tomb against which we had been
leaning. It was an old weather-worn stone, and bore on it the
inscription--

    'SUSANNAH KINGSNORTH,
        _Ob._ 1713.'

"'I shall be here.' I said.

"'I mean it,' she said, with deep and sudden seriousness, 'it is no
fancy. You will be here when the new moon shines?'"

"I promised, and after a while we parted.

"I had been with my kinsfolk at Bath nearly a month. I was to go home on
the next day, when, turning over a case in the parlour, I came upon that
miniature. I could not speak for a minute. At last I said, with dry
tongue, and heart beating to the tune of heaven and hell--

"'Who is this?'

"'That?' said my aunt. 'Oh! she was betrothed to one of our family many
years ago, but she died before the wedding. They say she was a bit of a
witch. A handsome one, wasn't she?'

"I looked again at the face, the lips, the eyes of my dear and lovely
love, whom I was to meet to-morrow night when the new moon shone on that
tomb in our churchyard.

"'Did you say she was dead?' I asked, and I hardly knew my own voice.

"'Years and years ago! Her name's on the back and her date----'

"I took the portrait from its faded red-velvet bed, and read on the
back--'SUSANNAH KINGSNORTH, _Ob._ 1713.'

"That was in 1813." My uncle stopped short.

"What happened?" I asked breathlessly.

"I believe I had a fit," my uncle answered slowly; "at any rate, I was
very ill."

"And you missed the new moon on the grave?"

"I missed the new moon on the grave."

"And you never saw her again?"

"I never saw her again----"

"But, uncle, do you really believe?--Can the dead?--was she--did
you----"

My uncle took out his pipe and filled it.

"It's a long time ago," he said, "a many, many years. Old man's tales,
my dear! Old man's tales! Don't you take any notice of them."

He lighted the pipe, puffed silently a moment or two, and then added:
"But I know what youth means, and happiness, though I was lame, and the
girls used to laugh at me."

_THE MYSTERY OF THE SEMI-DETACHED._

He was waiting for her; he had been waiting an hour and a half in a
dusty suburban lane, with a row of big elms on one side and some
eligible building sites on the other--and far away to the south-west the
twinkling yellow lights of the Crystal Palace. It was not quite like a
country lane, for it had a pavement and lamp-posts, but it was not a bad
place for a meeting all the same; and farther up, towards the cemetery,
it was really quite rural, and almost pretty, especially in twilight.
But twilight had long deepened into night, and still he waited. He loved
her, and he was engaged to be married to her, with the complete
disapproval of every reasonable person who had been consulted. And this
half-clandestine meeting was to-night to take the place of the
grudgingly sanctioned weekly interview--because a certain rich uncle was
visiting at her house, and her mother was not the woman to acknowledge
to a moneyed uncle, who might "go off" any day, a match so deeply
ineligible as hers with him.

So he waited for her, and the chill of an unusually severe May evening
entered into his bones.

The policeman passed him with but a surly response to his "Good night."
The bicyclists went by him like grey ghosts with fog-horns; and it was
nearly ten o'clock, and she had not come.

He shrugged his shoulders and turned towards his lodgings. His road led
him by her house--desirable, commodious, semi-detached--and he walked
slowly as he neared it. She might, even now, be coming out. But she was
not. There was no sign of movement about the house, no sign of life, no
lights even in the windows. And her people were not early people.

He paused by the gate, wondering.

Then he noticed that the front door was open--wide open--and the street
lamp shone a little way into the dark hall. There was something about
all this that did not please him--that scared him a little, indeed. The
house had a gloomy and deserted air. It was obviously impossible that it
harboured a rich uncle. The old man must have left early. In which
case----

He walked up the path of patent-glazed tiles, and listened. No sign of
life. He passed into the hall. There was no light anywhere. Where was
everybody, and why was the front door open? There was no one in the
drawing-room, the dining-room and the study (nine feet by seven) were
equally blank. Every one was out, evidently. But the unpleasant sense
that he was, perhaps, not the first casual visitor to walk through that
open door impelled him to look through the house before he went away
and closed it after him. So he went upstairs, and at the door of the
first bedroom he came to he struck a wax match, as he had done in the
sitting-rooms. Even as he did so he felt that he was not alone. And he
was prepared to see _something_; but for what he saw he was not
prepared. For what he saw lay on the bed, in a white loose gown--and it
was his sweetheart, and its throat was cut from ear to ear. He doesn't
know what happened then, nor how he got downstairs and into the street;
but he got out somehow, and the policeman found him in a fit, under the
lamp-post at the corner of the street. He couldn't speak when they
picked him up, and he passed the night in the police-cells, because the
policeman had seen plenty of drunken men before, but never one in a fit.

The next morning he was better, though still very white and shaky. But
the tale he told the magistrate was convincing, and they sent a couple
of constables with him to her house.

There was no crowd about it as he had fancied there would be, and the
blinds were not down.

As he stood, dazed, in front of the door, it opened, and she came out.

He held on to the door-post for support.

"_She's_ all right, you see," said the constable, who had found him
under the lamp. "I told you you was drunk, but you _would_ know
best----"

When he was alone with her he told her--not all--for that would not bear
telling--but how he had come into the commodious semi-detached, and how
he had found the door open and the lights out, and that he had been into
that long back room facing the stairs, and had seen something--in even
trying to hint at which he turned sick and broke down and had to have
brandy given him.

"But, my dearest," she said, "I dare say the house was dark, for we were
all at the Crystal Palace with my uncle, and no doubt the door was open,
for the maids _will_ run out if they're left. But you could not have
been in that room, because I locked it when I came away, and the key was
in my pocket. I dressed in a hurry and I left all my odds and ends lying
about."

"I know," he said; "I saw a green scarf on a chair, and some long brown
gloves, and a lot of hairpins and ribbons, and a prayer-book, and a lace
handkerchief on the dressing-table. Why, I even noticed the almanack on
the mantelpiece--October 21. At least it couldn't be that, because this
is May. And yet it was. Your almanac is at October 21, isn't it?"

"No, of course it isn't," she said, smiling rather anxiously; "but all
the other things were just as you say. You must have had a dream, or a
vision, or something."

He was a very ordinary, commonplace, City young man, and he didn't
believe in visions, but he never rested day or night till he got his
sweetheart and her mother away from that commodious semi-detached, and
settled them in a quite distant suburb. In the course of the removal he
incidentally married her, and the mother went on living with them.

His nerves must have been a good bit shaken, because he was very queer
for a long time, and was always inquiring if any one had taken the
desirable semi-detached; and when an old stockbroker with a family took
it, he went the length of calling on the old gentleman and imploring him
by all that he held dear, not to live in that fatal house.

"Why?" said the stockbroker, not unnaturally.

And then he got so vague and confused, between trying to tell why and
trying not to tell why, that the stockbroker showed him out, and thanked
his God he was not such a fool as to allow a lunatic to stand in the way
of his taking that really remarkably cheap and desirable semi-detached
residence.

Now the curious and quite inexplicable part of this story is that when
she came down to breakfast on the morning of the 22nd of October she
found him looking like death, with the morning paper in his hand. He
caught hers--he couldn't speak, and pointed to the paper. And there she
read that on the night of the 21st a young lady, the stockbroker's
daughter, had been found, with her throat cut from ear to ear, on the
bed in the long back bedroom facing the stairs of that desirable
semi-detached.
