THE IRON CHEST OF DURLEY

By JOSEPH GLANVIL[12]

Mr _John Bourne_, for his Skill, Care and Honesty, was made by his
Neighbour _John Mallet_, Esq., of _Enmore_, the chief of his Trustees,
for his Son _John Mallet_ (Father to Elizabeth, now Countess Dowager of
_Rochester_) and the rest of his Children in Minority. He had the
reputation of a worthy good Man, and was commonly taken notice of for an
habitual Saying, by way of Interjection almost to anything, viz. _You
say true, you say true, you are in the right._ This Mr Bourne fell sick
at his House at Durley, in the year 1654, and Dr _Raymond of Oak_ was
sent for to him, who after some time, gave the said Mr Bourne over. And
he had not now spoken in twenty-four Hours, when the said Dr Raymond,
and Mrs _Carlisle_ (Mr Bourne's Nephew's Wife, whose Husband he had made
one of his Heirs) sitting by his bedside, the Doctor opened the
Bed-curtains at the Bed's-feet, to give him air; when on a sudden, to
the Horror and Amazement of Dr Raymond, and Mrs Carlisle, the great Iron
Chest by the Window, at his Bed's-feet, with three Locks to it (in which
were all the Writings and Evidences of the said Mr Mallet's Estate),
began to open, first one Lock, and then another, then the third;
afterwards the Lid of the Chest, lifted up of itself, and stood wide
open. Then the patient, Mr Bourne, who had not spoke in 24 Hours, lifted
himself up also, and looking upon the Chest, cry'd: _You say true, you
say true, you are in the right, I'll be with you by and by._ So the
Patient lay down, and spake no more. Then the Chest fell again of
itself, and lock'd itself, one Lock after another, as the 3 Locks
opened; and they tried to knock it open, and could not, and Mr Bourne
died within an Hour after.

_N.B._--This Narrative was sent in a Letter to J.C., directed for Dr H.
More from Mr Thomas Alcock, of Shear-Hampton; of which in a Letter to
the said Doctor, he gives this Account. I am, said he, very confident of
the truth of the Story; for I had it from a very good Lady, the eldest
daughter of the said John Mallet (whose Trustee Mr Bourne was) and only
Aunt to the Countess of Rochester, who knew all the parties; and I have
heard Dr Raymond, and Mr Carlisle, relate it often with amazement, being
both Persons of Credit.

The curious may be inquisitive what the meaning of the opening of the
Chest may be, and of Mr Bourne his saying _You say true, etc., I'll be
with you by and by_. As for the former, it is noted by Paracelsus
especially, and by others, that there are signs often given of the
Departure of sick Men lying on their death beds, of which this opening
of the Iron Coffer or Chest, and closing again, is more than ordinary
significant, especially if we recall to mind that of Virgil:

    "Olli dura quies oculos & _ferreus_ urget
    Somnus----"

Though this quaintness is more than is requisite in these Prodigies
presaging the sick Man's Death. As for the latter, it seems to be
nothing else but the saying _Amen_ to the Presage, uttered in his
accustomary form of Speech, as if he should say, you of the invisible
Kingdom of Spirits, have given the Token of my sudden Departure, and you
say true, I shall be with you by and by. Which he was enabled so
assuredly to assent to, upon the advantage of the relaxation of his Soul
now departing from the Body: Which Diodorus Siculus, lib. 18, notes to
be the Opinion of Pythagoras and his followers, that it is the privilege
of the Soul near her Departure, to exercise a fatidical Faculty, and to
pronounce truly touching things future.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 12: _Sadducismus Triumphatus._]

XXXIII
