THE WAXEN IMAGE.--THE HOSTESS'S STORY.

We have alluded before the commencement of our late story to a clapping
of hands proceeding from the club-room, announcing the termination of
some tale from our hostess.

It will be remembered that the tale of our landlady had come to an end
previous to the commencement of our artist's narrative. Let us entreat
our reader, then, to take a retrospect glance, and imagine himself
seated in the club-room, in the company of its worthy members and our
buxom hostess, whilst the painter was deeply absorbed in his portrait of
the fair Helen.

Dame Hearty, after continued pressing, and some diffidence on her part,
seemed finally to be collecting her ideas, which process was performed
by casting down her eyes and toying with the corners of her apron; then
as if suddenly inspired, she abruptly smoothed down her apron on her
lap, and dovetailing the fingers of each ruddy hand within those of the
other, she hemmed once or twice and proceeded in the following
strain.

When I was a girl, gentlemen, about the age of my Helen, I was just such
another as she, though I dare say you would hardly believe it, to look
at me now; but ask my good man and he'll tell you the same. Look at my
Helen, and you will see what your humble servant was at her age. I had
the same rosy cheeks, like two ripe apples, the same laughing blue eyes
and sunny hair, and as for spirits, why, Lord bless you, the dear child
ain't nothing to what her mother was at her age.

Well, gentlemen, I was always for gaming and romping, and folks would
say that there wasn't a lass like Molly Sykes for miles round. In fact,
I used to be called the pride of the village, though I say it, that
shouldn't. At the time I speak of, I was at the village school, and
there was hardly a young man in the village that did not come a courtin'
after me, but I paid no attention to none of them, as I had been
attached from childhood to my Jack, then a spruce lad of some eighteen
summers, but I laughed and joked with all, so I was always popular.

The only school friend I ever had was a young girl about my own age--an
orphan, one Claribel Falkland, of an extremely delicate and sensitive
nature, the sweetest temper in the world, and of a beauty which in my
heart I felt surpassed my own, for it was more the beauty of a high-born
lady. I see before me now her pale oval face with her large lustrous
hazel eyes, her smooth dark nut-brown hair, and her slim graceful
figure which seemed to glide rather than walk about. I recollect, too,
her low soft voice that had music in the very tone of it, and her sweet
look radiant with the innocence of her heart. I know not how two beings
of such opposite temperaments should ever have become such fast friends,
for Claribel was pensive and melancholy, and of a studious turn, poring
over every book she could get hold of, whilst I, on the contrary, was a
perfect hoyden, always laughing and playing the fool when I ought to
have been at work.

However strange it may appear, it is certain that a sympathy stronger
than that generally found between two sisters grew up between us. But
let me pass on to describe certain peculiarities in the constitution of
my young school friend. In the first place, she had been from childhood
a sleep walker, a phenomenon that I soon discovered, for poor Claribel
being an orphan and having no home of her own, used to live with us, and
we two always slept together.

At first this peculiarity gave me no little alarm, as she would often
rise in the middle of the night, light a candle and wander all over the
house, and I was afraid that some night she would set the house on fire.

However, no accident ever occurred, and to my surprise I found that she
seemed just as cautious in her sleep as if she had been in her waking
state, always shading the flame with her hand and using such extreme
caution when passing near the curtains or anything else at all likely
to catch fire, that I used to doubt sometimes if she really could be
asleep.

Being warned by the doctor never to address her or touch her whilst in
this state, lest the shock should be too great for her, I, at first,
used to follow her with my eyes about the room, and if she left the
chamber, I generally used to rise and follow softly after, at some
distance, lest an accident should befall her. But finding soon that she
was just as certain of her footing in her sleep as in her waking
moments, I began to abandon my fears, and thought no more of this
peculiarity.

Indeed, as she was in the habit of rising every other night, I soon felt
far too sleepy to trouble myself about her. But soon this strange power
in her began to develop itself, and to take a stranger and more
interesting form.

She would now get up at night, sit herself down at a table, take pen,
ink, and paper, and fill sheet after sheet with close writing and
elegant composition. This was particularly the case if she had left a
task uncompleted during the day. In the morning it was sure to be found
finished, and generally better done than if it had been accomplished
during her hours of waking; nor was she herself conscious of it until
she examined her exercise the next morning.

If I perchance should have an uncompleted task on hand, she would
invariably finish mine before her own. But this phenomenon in my young
friend, however strange and unaccountable it may seem, sinks into utter
insignificance before a far more terrible one which I am now about to
describe.

You may think I exaggerate, gentlemen, or that it was the effect of my
own over-wrought fancy, produced by sleepless nights of watching over my
young friend, but there are witnesses living yet who saw what I saw, and
who are ready to give their testimony. The doctor of this village,
together with his assistant, the rector, and two women living close by,
are among these I speak of, besides others. Let them speak for
themselves if you will not believe my word.

The phenomenon to which I have above alluded was the power, if I may so
call it, of dividing herself in two, or becoming two separate beings;
that is to say, of making a duplicate of herself. This extraordinary and
fearful gift had evidently been noticed by others before it fell under
my own observation, since for a long time previous to seeing it myself
it was reported throughout the village that Claribel Falkland had
appeared in two places at the same time.

To this, however, as to all other village gossip, I paid no attention,
knowing well how trifles get exaggerated after passing through many
mouths, and how sometimes reports are circulated without an atom of
truth for their foundation. I can only tell you, however, gentlemen,
what I saw with my own eyes, believe it, or not, as you will. One
morning, then, after returning home from school, Claribel having been
unable to attend from some slight indisposition, I entered the room
suddenly where my friend was seated. I remember, too, that I had never
felt in better health in all my life, when there, to my utter
consternation, was not only my friend, seated as was her wont, in an
easy chair, with her head resting on her hand, but another figure, the
exact counterpart of herself, a duplicate Claribel, leaning over the
back of her arm-chair, exactly in the same position as my friend
happened to be at the time.

I remained at the door, my eyes and mouth wide open, in mute horror,
unable to advance a step or utter an exclamation, until my friend,
looking up and inquiring the reason of my surprise, the figure behind
the chair instantly vanished. I then proceeded to relate to her the
vision, which she, however, smiled at and affected to treat as a
temporary delusion on my part, the result of indigestion or disordered
state of my nerves. I persisted that I was in the most perfect health,
and that I had seen what I chose to style her "double."

She declared to me that she herself had not been conscious of it, and
that, therefore, whatever I might say to the contrary, it _was_ a
delusion. She answered even with some irritability--very unusual to
her--which made me think that she had long been aware of this phenomenon
in herself, but wished to keep it secret from others.

Seeing she was displeased, I said no more, and half persuaded myself
that I had been deluded by my senses. She had been living with us for
some time previous to the first appearance of the spectre, but after
this first visit the apparition repeatedly presented itself, often as
many as five or six times in the same day, though sometimes disappearing
for a week or a month, and then returning. I observed that the figure
always appeared clearer and more defined the more my friend appeared
absorbed in some favourite occupation, or when in a deep reverie. In
whatsoever way she happened to be occupied, whether in reading, writing,
reckoning, or in earnest conversation, the spectre would instantly
appear behind her, imitating her every movement with the precision of a
looking-glass.

Of course, this peculiarity in her constitution caused no slight terror
to myself, as well as to my father, who was then alive, and some
intimate friends; yet after a time, finding that the visits of the
apparition boded no harm, and getting accustomed to the same, we hailed
our spiritual visitant as a welcome guest, cracking jokes in its
presence, and even addressing it with so little appearance of reverence,
that had it not been a very good-tempered spectre, it must have resented
our rudeness. But the double never showed any resentment, unless
treating us all with silent contempt may be considered as resentment.
Indeed, it had never been once known to utter a sound; neither did it
appear to be conscious of our presence.

I remember on one occasion, for a frolic, throwing a heavy book at its
head, but this had no further effect than to disturb for a moment the
luminous ether of which the spectre appeared composed, and which
speedily re-settled itself, while the phantom seemed unconscious of
having received injury or insult of any kind. The book passed through
its head as if it had been air or smoke, and fell to the ground. I was
bold enough once to walk up to it and take it by the arm, and found to
my surprise, that there was a slight resistance, like that of muslin or
crape, but it melted within my grasp, and I noticed that wherever I
placed my hand, that that part of the figure was instantly wanting, and
did not right itself until I withdrew my touch.

Sometimes the whole figure would disappear if I came within two paces of
it, and it was not always of the same consistency, being sometimes less
palpable than at others. This I observed to be dependent upon the
greater or less absorption of my friend in her occupation or reverie. It
is also remarkable that the more clearly defined and life-like the
phantom appeared, the more exhausted and haggard grew my friend, and
_vice versa_.

But I must now return to the second visit of our spiritual companion.

You may well imagine my terror and consternation at its first
appearance, yet when the first shock had passed over, I should probably
never have related the vision to a single soul, and set down everything
to hallucination, had I not shortly after caught a second glimpse of the
spectre. This time my friend and I happened to be playing chess
together, when, whilst waiting for her to move, I distinctly saw the
double leaning over her chair, as if in the act of assisting her in the
game.

"Look, Claribel," I cried; "there it is again, you can't deny it this
time," whereupon the figure instantly disappeared.

Now, as my friend still persisted that it was nothing more than my
delusion, I began to be alarmed for my own health, and acquainted my
father with what I had seen. He, too, laughed at me, and called it a
silly girlish fancy, but said no more until I had seen it again three or
four times, going immediately to my father each time after the vision
had presented itself, and describing to him exactly the attitude and the
gestures of the apparition on each successive visit.

Then my father became alarmed for the state of my health, and a doctor
was sent for, that I might be bled. But on the doctor's arrival, he
could detect nothing wrong with me; but just to satisfy my father,
ordered me a little harmless physic, and took his departure. Believing
that whether the doctor perceived it or not, that I must really be in a
very bad state, I took all his medicine in regular doses, and at the
times prescribed, carrying out his injunctions to the letter.

Nevertheless, the vision continued, appearing several times a day, and
remaining sometimes almost half the day at a visit. Upon hearing all
this, my father called for the doctor again, and positively insisted on
my being bled this time. I remember that I was averse to the operation,
never having undergone it before, and imagining that the pain would be
much greater than I found it in reality. I therefore begged--finding my
father so determined--that my friend might be present during the
operation to give me courage.

This was assented to, and my friend was called into the parlour, looking
pale and trembling, as if she fancied herself guilty of the pain about
to be inflicted on me. She remained stationary in front of me, with a
look of sweet commiseration in her face, but without uttering a word.

Once or twice I thought she was going to speak, but she checked herself,
and then I noticed a struggle going on within her, as if she would have
said, "Ought I not to prevent this operation, and openly confess that
what my friend has seen, is not an hallucination, but a reality; a
phenomenon belonging to my constitution? But, no; I dare not."

This was how I read the expression of her face. However, the operation
passed over with far less pain than I had expected, when, oh, wonderful!
on looking up again at the face of my friend, who was standing
motionless as a statue, I perceived once more her double, not this time
as usual, standing behind her and imitating her attitude, but pacing up
and down the room with rapid steps and wringing her hands, as if in
despair.

Feeling somewhat weak from loss of blood, I forbore to cry out, but my
wild looks attracted the attention of my father and the doctor to the
spot my eyes were fixed upon, when, following the direction of my eyes,
both suddenly started in extreme terror, such as I have never seen
expressed before or since upon the faces of any two of the stronger sex.

The doctor halted in tying on the bandage, and trembled like an aspen,
while my father staggered and fell against the wall. For some minutes
not a word was spoken, when my friend probably guessing the cause of our
alarm, suddenly turned her head in the direction of their gaze, when the
apparition instantly vanished. Each looked at the other, and the doctor
declared that such a case had never before occurred in all his
experience, nor would he have believed it had he had other testimony
than that of his own eyes.

My friend then, her eyes filled with tears, begged of us all present to
keep the matter a secret, and not to publish it throughout the village.
Upon being questioned concerning the phenomenon, it appeared that what
we had all seen was a reality, having as she alleged been seen by others
before. She said that she was not conscious of its presence, save by the
looks of consternation she saw depicted on the faces of others; that she
had no control over the apparition, as it would appear and disappear
without her knowledge, and that she had never seen it herself but
once--in the looking-glass--when it caused her such a preternatural
horror that she never afterwards used a looking-glass without a
shudder.

This phenomenon in her nature, moreover, made her very unhappy, as on
this account people used to shun her, considering the apparition as the
work of the Evil One, and deeming her guilty of some fearful crime, for
such a judgment ever to be permitted to persecute her.

The doctor and my father, their first surprise once over, attempted to
console her, assuring her that they neither of them conceived her
capable of anything like a crime, recommending her to keep quiet and not
to worry herself on that account.

The doctor, to console her, further promised to keep her secret; but, in
spite of his earnest assurances that he would not breathe a word of it
to mortal man, a pamphlet appeared shortly afterwards in the doctor's
own name, announcing a new form of contagious nervous disease, in which
the visual organs of a healthy individual might become so affected by
contact with a person suffering from hallucinations as to cause him to
see or fancy he sees the object reflected on the retina of the patient
by his diseased imagination. An instance of this was given as having
occurred in the village, and though the names of the parties concerned
were not given in full, the neighbours had no doubt as to whom was meant
by C---- F----.

The pamphlet made some stir at the time, and poor Claribel, my bashful
and retiring friend, found herself made the lion of the season, and
pestered past all endurance by anxious inquiries and impertinent visits
from strangers, who came from far, hoping to have their curiosity
gratified by a re-appearance of the spectre. If such was their object in
calling, and it undoubtedly was, they one and all of them went away
terribly disappointed, for not in one single case did the apparition
vouchsafe to manifest itself.

Nevertheless, these continued visits from strangers to one so shy and
retired as my friend, made her excessively nervous, and were beginning
to undermine her health, which, the doctor perceiving, he gave instant
orders that she should receive no visits but those of her most intimate
friends.

Visitors still continued to call for some little time afterwards, but
were refused admittance on the plea of my friend's delicate health, and
their visits grew fewer and farther between, till at length they ceased
altogether, and Claribel's health began to improve.

As everything has an end, even the gossip of a little village, so in
time people grew tired, both of hearing or retailing what they had heard
and retailed so often before, till at length nobody believed a word
about the apparition; and because they could not explain the cause of
the phenomenon, hushed their minds to sleep by calling it imposture,
delusion, ignorant credulity, and the like.

The ghost had never appeared to them or to those who had taken so much
trouble as to come from afar on purpose to see it, and the deduction was
that as the spirit had refused to manifest itself to such respectable
people as these, it was not likely that it had ever vouchsafed to make
its appearance to anyone, so the affair was settled.

Time rolled on, and both my friend and I were promoted from pupils to
teachers in our school. The gossip of the village had long ceased; in
fact, Claribel's spiritual tormentor had discontinued its visits now for
so long that she began to hope that they had ceased for ever.

Claribel was now fast ripening into womanhood, and found herself no
longer shunned and whispered about as a person guilty of some horrible
crime which had called down the just vengeance of Heaven upon her, but
passed by like any other, without allusion to the past; nay, more, she
began to be courted by people in general, being known as a young woman
of most excellent character. Being of an extremely prepossessing
appearance, it was natural that she should be made a mark for all the
young men of the village to discharge their amorous glances at, and she
soon found herself surrounded by a crowd of swains who talked soft
nonsense to her, and who would fain make her believe that they were
dying with love for her.

Claribel, however, turned a deaf ear to them all. She was not a girl to
be wooed by soft nonsense; indeed, you would have said she was a girl
not likely to marry at all, she was so retired and showed such
indifference to the conversation of young men, and took no pains
whatever to set herself off to advantage in their eyes. Nevertheless
this did not deter admirers from flocking around her. In fact, I rather
think her coldness and apparent negligence of dress and general personal
appearance rather incited them the more. I have called her indifferent
to personal appearance; not that she was not scrupulously clean and
neat; no one could be more so. But there she was content to remain.

She cared not to deck herself out with bows and ribbons, by the wearing
of trumpery jewellery, or by any exaggerated fashion of wearing her
hair. It is just this simplicity in woman which attracts most men, and
it is natural enough that it should do so, as it argues a certain
forgetfulness of self, a modest and unselfish nature, which is the basis
of every womanly virtue, and therefore to be sought after in a wife.
Foolish women imagine that men are to be caught by being run after. They
therefore spare no expense in their toilet, study arts and graces, and
omit nothing which they think ought to captivate the opposite sex; but
as they too often over-step the bounds of modesty, their flimsy designs
are seen through, and they find themselves laughed at by those they had
hoped to make their prey.

Claribel had known such women in her time, and pitied rather than
despised them, for there was nothing harsh in her nature. She was often
quizzed in her turn by many a jimp-waisted hoyden for being a dowdy, but
she would pass by their remarks with a good-humoured smile, and say
little, for she was of few words.

Our school was now well filled with pupils, who, one and all, grew most
attached to my young friend--to both of us in fact--but I rather think
that she was the favourite.

There was not a person in or out of the school that could say a word
against Claribel Falkland; there was something so inoffensive, so
modest, and, at the same time, winning about her; such consideration for
others, such a looking out of herself, if I may so term it. Then she had
the knack of teaching--a rare gift--and was as mild and patient as a
lamb, thus endearing all hearts towards her.

One day when giving a lesson in geography to her class (this was about a
year after the last apparition of the spectre) I, who was giving a
lesson in arithmetic to some younger children in the opposite corner of
the schoolroom, was suddenly startled by a scream of surprise from the
girls of my friend's class.

"Look! look! oh, just look, Miss Sykes," they cried in terror, "look,
_there are two Miss Falklands_!"

I raised my eyes at the cry, and saw to my dismay, my friend's old
tormentor--the double--behind her, as usual, and imitating her action,
my friend being at that moment in the act of pointing to a map. I walked
across the room to my friend, hoping to drive away the spectre in so
doing, but it remained some minutes longer before it entirely
disappeared.

I caught the eye of my friend, who looked mournfully at me, and added in
a low tone of voice, as I passed her, "Is it not provoking? Could
anything be more annoying?"

I did not tell the schoolgirls that I myself saw the figure, and tried
to laugh them out of a "silly fancy," as I called it, fearing that I
might be called upon as a witness, should this report reach the ears of
the school-mistress, and it might prejudice folks against my friend as a
teacher, so I affected harshness, and said I begged I should hear no
more of such stuff, and the affair dropped for the time; but now that
the double had recommenced its visits, it came frequently, and always in
class time, to my friend's great discomfiture.

Of course, there was no getting out of it now. The school-mistress was
called, and saw the same thing; and I myself was obliged to see it with
the rest. The school-mistress was very much bewildered, as well she
might be. She declared she did not know what to make of it. She could
hardly bring herself to think that it was a messenger of good, and Miss
Falkland's character was so unimpeachable that she could still less
believe that anything bad should be permitted to torment her. In fact,
she did not know what to think, so she called for the rector of the
parish, that he might speak with the apparition; and if it should prove
an evil one, to exorcise it.

The rector came, but being disappointed in seeing the spectre, came a
second, third, and fourth time, with the like success, till at length he
went away in a huff, and begged they would trouble him no more.

One Sunday, however, as the rector was in the middle of his sermon, his
eyes being fixed on our school, we noticed him suddenly turn pale and
tremble. He was unable to go on with his sermon. I followed his eyes,
and found, as I half expected, my friend and her double seated close
together. The girls shrieked and started, and a commotion was being made
in the church; so much so, that Claribel was obliged to get up and walk
out, her double following close at her heels.

Fancy poor Claribel, who was like a nun in her love of solitude and
retirement, having to walk out of church through a crowd of people all
the way home again with a duplicate of herself following in her
footsteps!

You must not suppose that the matter stopped here. The remarks of the
rustics who met her on the way, the village gossip that now broke out
afresh--worse than ever before--the suspicious looks she received on all
sides, all contributed to mortify her; but what appeared to completely
break her spirit was the sudden falling off of one half of her pupils.
Of course, she could make no doubt as to the cause of this. Even the
rest of the pupils, she thought, grew colder to her, and they, too,
dropped off one by one, until the poor girl had not a single pupil left.

When matters arrived at this point it was hinted to her by the
school-mistress that on account of the great damage this unfortunate
peculiarity of hers had done the school, that it was better for her on
the whole, to leave. The school-mistress added that she was aware that
it was no fault of my young friend's, and it was with much regret that
she was obliged to part with her; yet what could she do? She could not
afford to lose all her pupils; and thus it was my poor friend lost a
situation upon which she depended to begin her little savings. Much and
bitterly did she weep over her cursed existence, and earnestly prayed
that she might be liberated from her tormentor.

Since she had left her position as a school teacher she had led a life
of such rigid retirement that it was with the greatest difficulty she
could be persuaded to leave the house, even in my company, to take the
air and exercise that her health required. She refused to see anyone
unless it was the rector, who would occasionally call in the evening to
take a dish of tea with us.

It was on one of these visits, when we were seated round the fire,
conversing agreeably--the rector was relating some amusing anecdote, to
which we were all listening attentively, the rector himself laughing at
his own story--when suddenly we noticed that he stopped short in the
middle of his laughing, turned pale, and rose from his chair.

The cause of this sudden change immediately became apparent to us all.
There, immediately behind the chair of Claribel, who had been listening
attentively to the rector, with her chin resting on her hand, was her
double in exactly the same position, with its eyes fixed intently on the
rector's face. The rector having started to his feet, assumed a tone
and manner which he in vain strove to render firm, and conjured the
figure in the name of the Holy Trinity, if it were a thing of evil, to
come out of her and trouble her no more; but his exorcism fell as upon
the wind, the spectre apparently not hearing his words, and departing at
its leisure some two or three minutes afterwards, appearing again once
or twice in the same evening during the rector's visit.

The following Sunday prayers were read publicly in the church, with the
view of dispelling the evil spirit, as it was called, and mention of the
phenomenon was made in the rector's sermon, but all to no purpose. The
spectre would appear and disappear whenever it chose, its coming being
never heralded by any particular signs, and its vanishing just as
uncertain.

If anyone particularly wished it to appear, it was as if the spectre
took a malicious delight in disappointing them; if, on the other hand,
its presence was exceedingly undesirable, it would be almost certain to
appear.

Of the numerous admirers of Claribel it will be necessary for me only to
mention two. The first was one John Archer, an ardent and virtuous
youth, aged twenty-one, whose honest English face revealed the sincerity
of his heart. He held the post of gamekeeper on the estate of Lord
Edgedown. He was bold and generous, but of a nature so bashful and timid
in matters regarding our sex, that he would have allowed himself to be
cut out in a love affair by a man not possessing one half his merit or
his good looks.

As my father was on good terms with the father of John Archer, John was
always a welcome visitor at our house, and thus began his acquaintance
with Claribel. I really think if he had persisted in his suit, as a more
courageous lover would have done, that he must at last have won the love
of Claribel. I know that Claribel had the highest esteem for him, and
had learnt to sympathise with him as one noble nature sympathises with
another.

They grew to treat each other as brother and sister, but this was all.
The other lover was a totally different sort of man. Richard de Chevron
was a scion of a noble house, had received the education of a gentleman,
and could mix in the highest society; but he was debauched, profligate,
a gamester, and a drunkard, of a mean and spiteful disposition, with
nothing noble whatever in his character and not even good looking, but
he had that persistency in wooing which John lacked, added to a very
smooth tongue and plentiful flow of language. Neither was he quite
without accomplishments; he could both play and sing well, and dance to
perfection; qualities which might have won the heart of a less austere
maiden than my friend Claribel. But Claribel retired, as she was, in
disposition and a perfect dunce in that education which mixing in the
world gives, had yet by nature, by way of compensation, such a
marvellously acute perception of human character, that it bordered on
the prophetic in many instances. In a word, she was a physiognomist.

On seeing Richard de Chevron for the first time, she had taken an
instant aversion to him, without ever having heard anything against his
character, and though De Chevron tried hard to dispel the sinister
impression with which he could not fail to observe he had inspired
her--and I must own that he did his best--yet that impression never left
her, but, on the contrary, deepened after every visit.

Now, Richard de Chevron was nephew to Lord Edgedown, and heir-apparent
to that earl's fortune and estates; at least, he often used to hint as
much, but this was evidently more brag, as he was a younger son, and was
known to be no particular favourite with his uncle on account of his
dissipated habits. He had also the hopes of coming in for another
fortune, so he said; that of Squire Broadacre, a relative on his
mother's side, whose estate joined that of Lord Edgedown's; but whether
all this were true or not, it made not the slightest difference to
Claribel in her estimation of the man. She still saw in him a low,
debauched, false, and perjured villain, seeking to hide under a mask of
studied courtesy the evil promptings of his reptile heart.

Even had De Chevron succeeded in making Claribel marry him, such a match
could have brought nothing but misery to her, even from a pecuniary
point of view, for at the time we knew him he had not a penny of his
own, and was, besides, head over ears in debt.

Men of the De Chevron class do not often mean marriage when they go
a-courting, unless it happens to be particularly to their interest. What
they want is a fortune, and not a wife. If the former can be had without
the latter, why so much the better; if not, they are content to put up
with the latter incumbrance for the sake of being able to pay off their
debts.

Now, poor Claribel was an orphan, without a penny in the world. What
good could his attentions bode the poor child? Claribel, however, was
not mercenary, and had she been capable of loving any man, she would
have been contented to live on a crust, and to have worked hard for it;
but she appeared not to be destined for earthly affection. The nearest
approach she ever made towards that passion commonly called love was the
deep friendship she had entertained for the youthful gamekeeper.

Now, to meet with a rival in the person of his uncle's gamekeeper was
gall and wormwood to Richard de Chevron. He knew that John Archer was a
young man of trust who received a good salary, and was of a rank nearer
to that of Claribel's than his own was, and his attentions would be more
readily looked upon as earnest.

Besides, John was good looking and noble, and had it not been for his
excessive modesty in coming forward, would have been the very man of all
men most likely to ensure the love of such a girl as Claribel. The
intentions of De Chevron were not honourable, whatever his protestations
might have made them out. He could not afford to marry Claribel, nor
did he ever for a moment meditate such a thing.

Had an intimate friend asked him in confidence if he really entertained
thoughts of marriage towards the girl he so ardently professed to love,
he would have burst out laughing in his face, and asked him if he took
him for a fool. No; he simply desired to win the heart of Claribel, and
succeeding in that, he looked upon his prey as certain. But as yet he
had not succeeded; nay, more, he had a favoured rival--a young man of
good natural advantages, and in every way qualified to make Claribel
happy, even though he were only his uncle's gamekeeper and had not
received a gentleman's education. He thought of the difference of
Claribel's treatment of this young boor and that of himself--he, the
scion of a noble house!

Then jealously began to gnaw his heart, and he found it to his interest
that John Archer should be removed for ever from his path. Being
perfectly unscrupulous and selfish, he cared not what means he employed
to execute his design, as long as no suspicion should be attached to
himself.

He could have waylaid and murdered his rival, if he chose; have
introduced poison in his cup, or bribed an assassin to murder him, but
none of these modes suited De Chevron. The law was vigilant, inquiries
would be made, and the murder probably traced to his own door. His
reputation would suffer, to say nothing of his own life being
endangered. He would have no accomplices, as he knew that no man was to
be depended upon; he would trust to no one but himself and his own
resources.

Like a wily Jesuit, he would work in the dark, would be the cause of all
the mischief that his own atrocious brain could dictate, but himself
remain hid. Now, when Richard de Chevron first met John Archer at my
father's house, he treated him with coldness, not to say haughtiness. He
now completely changed his tactics. He saw that the least show of
contempt or dislike towards the young gamekeeper, who was a general
favourite--and especially with Claribel--would be construed into
jealously on his part; and though this was really the case, it did not
suit him that everyone should know it; therefore he entirely altered his
conduct towards his rival, and nothing now could be more kind and
courteous, more apparently generous than his treatment of his uncle's
gamekeeper.

He apologised if by any former brusqueness of manner he had offended
him, pleading that he had not had the opportunity hitherto of studying
his estimable character, but that after long observation he had learnt
to appreciate his noble qualities, and should henceforth entertain for
him the highest esteem and friendship. He would pat him playfully on the
shoulder, call him his friend, would make him every now and then some
trifling present, and even put in a good word for him to my friend
Claribel.

All this had the appearance of generosity, as De Chevron designed it
should have, and thus avert suspicion from himself. We were all of us at
home much surprised and pleased at this extraordinary change, especially
as he had ceased for a time to persecute Claribel with his attentions.

Richard de Chevron appeared to be turning over a new leaf. When I say we
were all deceived in De Chevron's behaviour, I must not omit to state
that there was one exception, and that was Claribel herself, who from
the first had behaved with a freezing coldness towards De Chevron, and,
little as she knew of the world and its wickedness, had such an
instinctive distrust of this man, that when he began to speak favourably
to her of John Archer, she trembled violently, and looked into his face
with such a searching glance that it seemed to peer into the inmost
recesses of his soul.

De Chevron cowered beneath her gaze; he felt himself distrusted, and was
probably little flattered at the opinion of himself he saw written in
her eyes. Nevertheless, he would not have shown for the world that he
was disconcerted; he was a practised dissembler, and instead of being
abashed, grew more witty and talkative than ever, more and more friendly
to his rival, only I noticed that he avoided the eyes of Claribel as
much as possible.

The fact was, he feared her; he, the artful, experienced man of the
world, crouched like an abject slave before a simple village maiden. His
guilty soul could not brook the chaste glance of innocence. He knew
himself to be a false degraded wretch, and quailed before her moral
superiority.

However, Richard de Chevron had worked himself into favour with all of
us; in fact, we grew delighted with him, still excepting Claribel, who
seemed very unreasonably prejudiced against him, as we all thought. She
would declare to me in private that from the very first the aspect of De
Chevron had been repulsive to her; but of late, so far from having
overcome her impression, he had grown perfectly intolerable in her eyes;
nay, that she was seized with such horror and loathing when he was in
the room as she could not find words to express.

She had a presentiment of evil, and it seemed to her, moreover, as if he
were using some occult power over her that she, however, was determined
to resist.

I tried to laugh her out of these fancies as being quite unfounded, and
attributed them to her nerves being over-wrought from want of sufficient
air and exercise; but all without avail; she remained as confirmed as
ever in her prejudices. It is now some time since I made allusion to
Claribel's spiritual visitant. She had long been undisturbed by its
visits; indeed, ever since De Chevron and John had commenced calling at
the house, and even before. It is uncertain whether either of them had
ever heard of the phenomenon. I rather think not, as De Chevron, who
mixed almost entirely in the upper circles, would not easily have come
in the way of our village cackle, especially as he was often absent
from the village for months at a time; and as for John, being constantly
engaged on Lord Edgedown's estate, he knew comparatively little of the
world without. But whether they did or not, it is certain that the
subject was never broached during all that time.

We have mentioned before that Claribel's spiritual visitor was fitful
and capricious in its visits. It might appear at any moment; but then we
had been free from its company for so long, that we had dared to hope
that it had forgotten all about us and would never return, until one
morning new fears arose in my mind from a little circumstance which I
shall now relate to you.

Observing that my young friend rose from her couch looking poorly, I
inquired into the cause of her jaded looks.

"Oh, Molly," she replied, "I've had such a dreadful dream about poor
John. I am sure that some danger threatens him."

"What danger do you imagine threatens him, Claribel?" said I. "Tell me
your dream."

"I really do not know if I can," she replied; "it was so very confused.
I thought that John Archer stood in danger of his life at the hands of
Richard de Chevron, and yet it was not Richard de Chevron, but another;
then, again, it was. I remember something about a murdered man, and
fearing it was John Archer, but on examining the corpse it was another.
Then I remember seeing John Archer handcuffed, and in great agony of
mind, and I thought him guilty of the murder, and then he was not
guilty. Then the dream began to change in such a manner as it would be
impossible to relate it; but throughout I remember the fiendish face of
Richard de Chevron. I was seized with an inexpressible horror, and could
bear it no longer; then I awoke."

"My dear Claribel," said I, "pray do not disturb yourself for such a
ridiculous dream. You ought to know that all dreams are mad, the
offspring of impaired digestion or----"

But she impatiently cut me short by a wave of the hand, as if she were
determined to believe in the warning character of her dream, despite all
my sophistry.

However, I attempted a second time to account for the dream by the
aversion she had taken to Richard de Chevron at first sight and her
constantly brooding over her unfounded impressions. I tried argument, I
tried ridicule; but finding her proof against either, I held my tongue
and took up a piece of work.

Claribel had thrown herself into an arm-chair, and there sat listlessly,
without occupying herself or hardly exchanging a word with me. Once,
indeed, she gasped out to herself "Oh, that I could save him!" and then
relapsed into her usual silence.

About five minutes after, chancing to look up, I observed that my friend
appeared to be more languid than ever. She was dreadfully pale, her lips
colourless and slightly parted, the eyes half-closed. I thought she was
in a swoon, and now somewhat alarmed, I rose and advanced towards her.

"Claribel," I cried, "what ails you--are you unwell?"

She waved me away with her hand, so imagining it was nothing more than a
little weakness, I withdrew myself and resumed my work. Soon afterwards
she appeared to rally, and sat up in her chair. Her colour had returned
somewhat, and her eye seemed brighter, but her voice was still weak as
she muttered, "I have seen him. Oh! why did you disturb me?"

"Seen him!" I exclaimed. "Seen whom?"

"John Archer," she replied.

"Nonsense," said I; "you have been dreaming."

"I tell you, Molly," she replied, rather pettishly, "I have seen him,
and would have warned him had you not disturbed me."

"Silly child," said I; "you have been dreaming; but you looked so very
ill that I grew alarmed, for I thought you were in a swoon."

Just then my father entered the room and commenced talking on household
matters, so our conversation dropped; nor did I give it a further
thought until the evening, when John Archer made his appearance, as he
frequently did, to take his tea with us.

"Good evening, Mistress Claribel," said he. "You were in a mighty hurry
to quit my company this morning after paying me such an unexpected
visit. Methinks you are chary of your presence. It is a mystery to me
how you appeared and disappeared from me without my perceiving either
the coming or the going of you."

"How say you, Master John?" said my father, pricking up his ears. "Do
you say that our Claribel paid you a visit this morning?"

"Ay, sir," replied John; "at about nine o'clock this morning, as I was
walking along with my gun, on his lordship's estate, I suddenly saw
Mistress Claribel coming straight in front of me. She looked as if she
were about to speak to me, when all of a sudden--I'm sure I can't tell
how--she disappeared. I looked round about me, and called her, but there
was no one.

"Then I began to be alarmed, thinking something must have happened to
Mistress Claribel, and that I had seen her ghost. I could not let the
day pass by without dropping in to call to see if she were all right."

"You must be mistaken, John," said I. "I assure you that Claribel has
not left the house all day. She has felt rather unwell."

"Not left the house!" exclaimed Archer. "Why I saw her quite plain this
morning."

"You must have been dreaming," said my father.

But I noticed that he gave a glance of peculiar meaning at my friend and
self. I knew what was passing in his mind. I, too, shared the same
apprehensions. John Archer must have re-encountered Claribel's second
self, her much dreaded double. I then recalled the words of Claribel
that morning.

"_I have seen him. Oh, why did you disturb me?_"

My poor friend, I observed, was dreadfully confused as my father's eye
rested on her. The colour mounted to her cheeks, then vanished again,
leaving her deadly pale, and she seemed desirous to escape notice. Her
restlessness became extreme when John began persisting that he had not
been dreaming, that he could vouch for what he had seen, etc., etc.

"You should get yourself bled, Master Archer," said my father; "you
can't be well."

"I assure you I am in the very best of health," persisted John.

"And I assure you, Master Archer, that Claribel has not quitted this
house to-day, to my certain knowledge," said my father.

"What, not for a moment?" went on Archer, most annoyingly. "How say you,
Mistress Claribel, was it not you I saw this morning on Lord Edgedown's
estate as I was walking along with my gun over my shoulder?"

Claribel grew red and pale by turns, and her lips began to move, as if
she felt herself forced to give some answer; but at that moment my
father seemed troubled with a violent fit of coughing which drowned her
reply. John waited quietly until the coughing was over, and then began
again.

"Do you mean to say it was not you I saw this morning?"

The coughing was resumed, and strange enough, always returned just as
John Archer began to open his mouth. John looked in wonderment, first
at Claribel, then at my father, then at Claribel again, and finally at
me. He had unwittingly touched upon a sore place. This he seemed to be
aware of; but how he had been to blame was a mystery to him.

He suddenly changed the conversation, and began discoursing on
indifferent topics. The coughing ceased for that evening. As he rose to
go we followed him to the door, and I observed that Claribel, who was
the foremost, whispered something secretly into his ear at parting. I
myself was immediately behind her, and overheard the hurried words,
"John, you have an enemy. Beware!"

Then she put her finger quickly to her lips, to prevent him giving any
outward expression to his wonderment, and the door closed upon our
guest.

"You silly girl," said I to my friend as we were undressing that
evening, previous to retiring to rest. "What nonsense of you to try and
infect that young man with your own ungrounded fears. Do you think I did
not overhear what you said?"

She looked a little downcast at this, but then instantly recovering, by
way of consoling herself, she ejaculated, "Nevertheless, I have warned
him," and she clasped her hands above her head enthusiastically.

No further word was said about John Archer that night. On the following
morning I had occasion to call upon a neighbour who lived some four or
five miles off. I rose early, and started off on foot. As I was
returning home it came on to rain in such torrents that I was forced to
take shelter under a little shed that was annexed to a small hut
standing alone upon a hill, far from any other human dwelling.

It was the only place at hand, and had it not been for the excessive
inclemency of the weather, I might have thought twice before choosing
such a place of refuge, for this was the abode of Madge Mandrake as she
was called--a personage feared by all, far and wide, both young and old.
She was renowned in the villages round about for her skill in telling
fortunes, in concocting drugs of every description, from love philtres
to the deadliest poisons, not less than for malice in bringing to pass
all sorts of trouble upon those who had had the misfortune to offend
her. If a cow died, it was Madge's doing; if the milk turned sour, or
the crops were blighted, Madge was accused of it; if a person died
suddenly, or an accident happened to anyone, Madge likewise had the
credit of it. Her dwelling, therefore, was shunned by all, and when she
ventured to walk abroad and to mix in crowded thoroughfares, she had but
to lift her crutch to send the whole populace flying helter-skelter, for
fear of being enchanted into unclean beasts, reptiles, and other
loathsome things.

You may imagine then, gentlemen, my feelings; though naturally
courageous at finding myself obliged to seek shelter near the house of
so formidable a personage, I did my utmost to make no stir, so as not to
betray my whereabouts.

There was a small window that looked from the cottage into the shed, but
so begrimed with dirt that I should not have been able to take a peep
into the house, had it not been for a pane of glass that was wanting.
Through this I was enabled to see the interior of this unhallowed
dwelling without being perceived. Before I ventured to peep through it I
heard two voices conversing together.

I held my breath, and listened. The former was the harsh, cracked voice
of the crone herself; the latter was evidently that of a man, and
appeared to belong to a person of culture, for the tones were soft and
modulated. I began to fancy I recognised them; nor was I mistaken, as
you shall hear soon.

"Well, Master de Chevron, and how have you been progressing in your work
since I saw you last?" said the crone.

"Satisfactorily enough for my purpose, my good Madge," replied the other
voice. "I have brought it with me for your approval."

Here the speaker, whom I could now recognise as no other than Richard de
Chevron, drew from under his cloak something carefully wrapt up in
tissue paper. Having unwound the paper, he discovered a small statue of
a man, about a foot in height, apparently in wax.

"Why, you have got it as like as could be!" exclaimed the crone. "Yes,
that is John Archer, sure enough; there is no mistaking him."

My curiosity began to be roused, and Claribel's apprehensions for John's
safety rushed across my mind. Though I was not near to the figure, I
could see plainly that it was intended for a likeness of John Archer,
and that it carried a gun over one arm. The hag seized the image in one
hand with a sort of fiendish glee, and commenced mumbling some
inarticulate sounds.

I trembled from the crown of my head to the soles of my feet, for I had
heard of this way of working mischief on one's enemies from afar, and I
feared lest some dreadful harm should happen to poor John, so I offered
up a hasty prayer for his safety.

"The charm is said," croaked the witch. "Now let the work begin."

Here she set the image upright, and taking a long sharp pin she seemed
about to transfix the waxen image with it; but I noticed that her hand
trembled violently. I still continued to pray fervently, whereupon the
witch was seized with such a fit of sneezing and wheezing that she was
unable to proceed in her work.

"Why, Madge," said De Chevron, "what is the matter? How have you managed
to catch such a cold all of a sudden?"

"Odds blood! I know not," answered the beldam; "it is as if I was in
church."

At the word "church" the wheezing came on again.

"Ah! I see," said De Chevron; "It is the wind that is howling through
that broken pane of glass," and he pointed to the very pane through
which I was peeping.

I thought my last hour was come, for I was sure to be discovered.
However, I ducked down in a corner, whilst De Chevron stopped up the
missing pane with a filthy rag without even catching a sight of me.

Rising again to my feet, I managed to open the little window the least
bit ajar, but just enough to see and hear all. My fright was so great
all this time that I had unwittingly slacked a little in my prayer, and
just at that moment Madge made a desperate plunge with the pin, which
appeared aimed at the heart of the image; but as I had now recommenced
my prayers, alas, somewhat too late, the pin missed its mark, but
pierced the barrel of the gun, which, together with the thumb of the
figure, fell upon the table.

"Better next time, Madge," said De Chevron. "Try again."

She made another essay, and then another, but missed the figure
altogether.

"I am not as young as I was," she said, by way of apology, "and neither
my eyesight nor my hand are to be relied upon as of old."

However, she aimed again and again at the figure, but with the same
result.

"Why, you _are_ getting old, Madge!" said De Chevron, surprised at her
repeated failures. "Come, let me put the pins in."

Seizing the image with one hand and a long pin with the other--(here
again my breath failed me through fear, and I omitted to pray)--he first
pierced the arm of the figure that supported the gun in one place, and
then in another higher up. He then took a third pin and seemed about to
pierce the image in the region of the heart, when I, now really alarmed
for the victim, again offered up a short and fervent prayer.

De Chevron instantly dropped the pin, as if it had been red hot; but
immediately taking up another, he made a furious thrust at the body of
the image, but his hand went off widely from the mark, leaving the image
unscathed.

"Why, how is this?" exclaimed De Chevron, in astonishment.

"Ha! ha! Master de Chevron," laughed the witch, "you are no better than
old Madge after all."

"Well, this _is_ strange!" muttered De Chevron to himself, after having
tried once or twice more and failed.

"Are you quite sure you have repeated the charm aright, Madge?"

"Quite sure," replied the crone; "but, beshrew me, if I don't think
there is some hostile element at hand that counteracts the charm. Just
look at the way Grimalkin arches his back and ruffles his fur."

I now noticed a huge black tom cat, of a size that I never remember to
have seen before or since, whose luminous eyes flashed red and green by
turns from an obscure corner of the hovel.

"There! there! _there_!" cried De Chevron, furiously, accompanying each
word with a thrust, but missing each time.

Then, in his rage at being foiled thus, he raised the image in order to
dash it to the ground; but the wax having melted somewhat in his hand,
it stuck to his fingers like pitch, and he was obliged to disengage it
gently and place it on the small table just underneath the window
through which I was peeping.

"I'll tell you what it is, Madge," said he, "there is more witchcraft in
this countercharm, whatever it is, than in all your skill. There must
be, as you say, some contrary influence at work. How else should it be
possible for me to fail every time, as if I were smitten with the palsy?
Let us go out and see if anyone is lurking near the hut."

So leaving the image on the table, he strode towards the opposite door,
which he opened wide, followed by the beldam.

Not a moment was to be lost. The instant their backs were turned I
cautiously opened the window, and introducing my arm until it touched
the table beneath, I secured the image, re-closed the window
noiselessly, and flew as fast as my feet could carry me through the
pelting rain with the image under my shawl.

I had hardly reached home, quite out of breath, when Claribel came
running to me, pale and trembling, and wringing her hands.

"Oh! Molly, dear," she cried, sobbing, "what do you think has happened
to that poor young man John Archer?"

"What is it?" I asked, anxiously. "Anything in connection with Richard
de Chevron?"

"I cannot exactly say that," she replied. "It seems to have been purely
an accident. This is how it was. His gun suddenly burst in a most
unaccountable manner whilst he was carrying it over his arm, and carried
off one of his thumbs. No surgeon could be procured at the time, and the
wound appears to have gangrened and to have infected the whole arm. The
surgeon, who has only just arrived, says that it will be necessary to
remove the arm to save his life."

"Not for worlds!" cried I, with animation. "I'll be responsible for his
life. There," said I, producing the waxen image and hastily withdrawing
the two pins still sticking in the arm of the figure, and which in my
hurry I had omitted to extract till now. "There, now the mortification
in the arm will have stopped. Send directly to the surgeon that the
operation will be no longer necessary. Nay, I will go myself."

"What does all this mean?" asked Claribel, astonished beyond measure.

"No matter now," I answered. "I am off at once. If you like you may come
with me; but first let me lock up this image in a place where it will
not be touched."

So saying, I put on my bonnet and shawl again, and dragging Claribel
after me, we ran with all our might and main to the cottage where poor
John lay stretched on a pallet, the surgeon with his knife ready
sharpened for the operation, standing over him, about to commence.
Another second would have been too late.

"Hold your hand, doctor!" I cried, suddenly. "The mortification has
ceased, and the operation will be no longer necessary. I will be
answerable for this young man's life without his losing his arm."

I spoke with an authority that completely astonished the doctor, for he
looked bewilderingly first at me and then at my friend; but at length
said, "I understand nothing of all this. I have been called here by this
young man's family to give my professional opinion, and I say that
unless he submits to lose his arm, his life will be endangered."

"But the mortification has ceased. Would you amputate a limb without
necessity for so doing?"

"Certainly not."

"Well, then, look for yourself. Where is the mortification?"

Here the surgeon glanced at the arm, and looked wondrous wise.

"The mortification has ceased beyond a doubt," he said at length. "Well,
I never saw such a thing in all my life. What! am I dreaming," he
muttered. "I do not understand all this. How came you, Miss Molly,
to--to----"

"Hush!" said I.

Then lowering my mouth to his ear, I whispered a few words, and put my
finger to my lip, to enjoin silence. The doctor arched his eyebrows till
they nearly touched the roots of his hair, screwed up his mouth to the
size of a buttonhole, and gave vent to a prolonged "wh-e-w!"

He soon after left the house, and we were left alone for a while to
comfort the sufferer. During the few moments that we were left alone
together I recounted briefly the whole of my adventure.

Both John and Claribel were completely thunder-struck at my recital, and
Claribel muttered half to herself and half to me, "And to think that it
should be Richard de Chevron, after all. I knew he was a villain."

John speedily recovered. He had received no further injury than the loss
of his thumb. He often called at our house afterwards, and upon seeing
the waxen image immediately recognised it as a likeness of himself. It
being now beyond a doubt that Richard de Chevron, out of jealousy, had
conspired against the life of John Archer and being equally certain in
my own mind, from a knowledge of De Chevron's character, that he would
not let his victim slip so easily through his fingers, but, foiled in
his first attempt, would lose no time in employing some other means of
removing his rival from his path, I began to rack my brains in search of
some scheme to thwart the machinations of this villain.

"What if he should make another waxed image, and shutting himself up in
his own house, carry out his infernal spells without interruption?" I
said to myself. If so, what could I do?

John Archer should have our constant prayers; beyond this there was no
impediment to De Chevron's evil designs. The law would give us no
redress. I was very sure of that. Witchcraft had ceased to be believed
in, and the case would be dismissed. One thought, indeed, crossed my
mind for a moment, which I mentioned to Claribel, and this was to pay
back De Chevron in his own coin by converting the image of John Archer
into a likeness of De Chevron and experimenting upon the villain from
afar in the same manner as he had designed to practise against John
Archer.

It was but a momentary thought and a sinful, and the proposal was
rejected by Claribel instantly and with horror.

"Should we," said she, "put ourselves on a level with a murderous
villain, using against him the same unhallowed means that he himself had
not hesitated to use against his victim?"

But besides the light in which my friend had put my proposition, there
was another argument against the scheme that perhaps had more weight
with me. In order to change the image from the likeness of John Archer
into a likeness of De Chevron it would be necessary to destroy the image
altogether first, and this, for what I knew, might put John Archer's
life in peril. This last argument decided me, and I resolved to guard
the image as jealously as possible, and to proceed against De Chevron by
natural means solely. An idea flashed across me that there might be some
countercharm against evil spells if we could only find it out. Indeed, I
remembered to have heard that there was, and musing thus within myself,
I suddenly recollected to have heard a couplet in my childhood that ran
thus:

    "Vervain and Dill
    Keep witches from their will."

These two herbs, then, were countercharms. I was resolved to try the
experiment, so procuring some of each without more delay, I gave them
into the possession of John Archer, who promised me to wear them always
about him; and whether or no De Chevron ever made any further attempt
against the life of his rival by means of magic I know not, but if he
did he must signally have failed, as for ever so long afterwards Archer
enjoyed the most perfect health and remained free from any further
accident.

Whether De Chevron suspected that John Archer possessed some
countercharm against which his evil spells were vain, or if he again
essayed his magic after his first defeat, we know not, but certain it
was that he still cherished hatred against his rival, upon whom he was
determined to bring trouble, if not by necromancy, at least by natural
means.

For some time past he had not been near us. This was evidently to ward
off suspicion from himself and check the village gossip. However, soon
after the disappearance of the image--whether or no he suspected it was
I who purloined it and wished to brave the matter out--he called and
informed us that he was going to London on important business, and had
come to take leave of us for a time. There was nothing in his manner
that appeared the least constrained or abashed. On the contrary, he
seemed more lively and witty than usual, asked kindly after all our
family, and even John Archer, whom he said he had not seen for a long
time, although he had heard of his misfortune, for which he professed
great sympathy, and hoped the poor fellow would not take his loss too
much to heart; adding that it was lucky that they had managed to save
his life without amputating his arm.

Throughout all his discourse his manner had so much of frankness and
sincerity that I could hardly bring myself to believe that he was the
same villain whose infernal plot against the innocent John Archer, I had
accidentally unravelled. I began to think that somehow or other I must
have been under a delusion, until chancing to glance towards a glazed
cupboard in which the wax figure stood upright and was easily
discernable from where I stood, the whole of my recent adventure came
back to me forcibly. Yet there sat the author of this unhallowed deed,
this would-be murderer, smiling and chatting and paying compliments with
the easy grace of a courtier, with a countenance frank and open as a
spring morning. How could a girl of my age, ignorant of the world and
its wickedness, possibly imagine that a heart so black could be
concealed underneath so smooth an exterior? Had I not had positive proof
of his villainy within reach, I should certainly never have believed him
capable of such a deed. Even as it was I was obliged to gaze frequently
at the cupboard in order to reassure myself that I was not dreaming and
to prevent myself from being won over by his tongue.

De Chevron was a quick observer, and noticed our furtive glances towards
the cupboard. Then fixing his spy-glass in his eye, he looked in the
same direction; but either saw or affected to see nothing. Afterwards he
got up and walked about the room, conversing the while, and in so doing
passed several times in front of the cupboard, looking in casually as he
passed.

I felt sure that he must have seen the image, though there was nothing
in his manner that I could discover at all confused or unusual. I
believe he would have braved the matter out if I had told him to his
face that it was I myself who had stolen the image after I had overheard
with my own ears this villainous plot against poor John. He was just the
sort of man who would have looked me full in the face and denied ever in
his life having been in Madge Mandrake's cottage.

He would have tried to make me believe that I had been the victim of
some fearful delusion from my over-excited fears or what not, that the
image was not of his making; would have denied ever having set eyes on
it before. Nor would, in all probability, have seen any likeness
whatever to John Archer, and would have treated as nothing more than a
coincidence the fact of John's gun and the loss of his thumb occurring
at the same time that the gun and thumb of the waxen figure were damaged
by old Madge's pin thrust.

He would have asked me if I thought him capable of believing in such
trumpery, and would have tried to laugh me out of my superstition. All
this I should have expected from him, such was his amount of assurance.
Once I had it on the tip of my tongue to ask him what he thought of the
image, and if he knew anyone it resembled; and would have done it, too,
as I was anxious to observe what effect a sudden allusion to the image
would have had upon him, but at that moment my father, who knew nothing
of the affair of the waxen image, entered the room, and the conversation
took another direction.

Shortly afterwards he left the house, promising to call again after his
return from London. As he had been so particular in telling us of his
intended visit to London, of course, I believed him. What reason could I
have had for not doing so? Nevertheless, it proved to be all a
falsehood. He never had any intention of going to London at all; and
never left the village.

But why this deceit? you will naturally ask. Listen, and tell me if you
could have imagined a scheme so diabolical as the following ever
entering into human brain. To carry out his base designs he hired a
certain pedlar, one Michael Rag, well known to be a shady character,
and envious of John Archer's comparatively easy circumstances, so having
talked him over, if not by bribery, at least by instigating him in a
manner suggested by his own natural cunning as calculated to excite the
covetous disposition of the tool he intended to use for his own
purposes, to purloin John Archer's silver watch, a present he had
received from his master for his faithful services.

This watch De Chevron represented to the pedlar as being one of superior
workmanship, and far too good for a man of John Archer's position to
wear. He blamed his uncle for lavishing handsome presents upon
undeserving hangers-on. Who, after all, was John Archer? He (De Chevron)
could remember him in worse circumstances even than the pedlar himself.
Whence his good fortune? From his merit? Pooh! It was easy enough for
any man to keep a good place when he had once got it, if he wasn't quite
a fool. Then as to his getting it in the first place, mere luck. Why, as
if there were not many a better man than John Archer for such a post.
Was he more honest than any other? Bah! every man is honest until he is
found out to be the contrary.

Thus, first by raising the pedlar's cupidity by a vivid description of
the watch, then by giving an additional stimulant to his envious nature
by representing the owner of the watch as unworthy of such a present, he
finally wound up by insinuating, rather than broadly stating, that the
pedlar himself was a man of merit and deserved being in a better
position than John Archer, if all men had their rights.

In fact, such was De Chevron's power of persuasion, that he at last, by
dint of subtle arguments, made irresistible by the courteous grace by
which they were set off, and, moreover, making it appear that he himself
could have no object in giving such advice, that he at length succeeded
in making the pedlar believe that he was a very ill-used man, and that
as fortune had been so niggardly to him, considering his merits, whilst
she squandered her favours on the undeserving, that it was quite
excusable in him; nay, it was his duty, and nothing more than what he
owed to himself to seek his own fortune by appropriating a portion of
that superfluous wealth unjustly held back from him by the capricious
goddess and given into unworthy hands.

It was not difficult for De Chevron to ignite the already too
inflammable cupidity of the pedlar. A hint was enough. From that hour
the watch was doomed. Seeing that his words had had their effect, he
applauded the determination of the pedlar, and added that though he had
no interest in mixing himself up in such affairs, yet he liked to
encourage enterprising men, and he himself would furnish him with the
means of making his booty doubly sure, and without which he represented
it would be madness to make the attempt.

He showed him that John Archer always carried a gun with him, that he
was a hot-tempered young fellow, and would shoot him as soon as look at
him if he attempted and failed.

"One must use all one's resources, in case of need," he added, and
suggested that the securest way to obtain the watch would be to
administer to Archer a glass of drugged wine, which he might easily
induce the unsuspecting youth to accept. This drug (which De Chevron had
in his possession and which was probably concocted by his friend and
ally, Madge Mandrake) produced instantaneous sleep for full five hours
on the person partaking of it. It was agreed then that the pedlar should
carry in his coat pocket a bottle of the said drugged wine, together
with a wine glass, that towards evening he should wander about a certain
unfrequented road which bordered on Lord Edgedown's estate, and near
which Archer was sure to be at a certain hour.

Should he catch sight of John Archer, he was to accost him civilly,
invite him to converse, then after a time produce the bottle and glass
and say that he had some dozens of very choice wine which if he (John
Archer) could only induce his lordship to buy that it would be the
making of his fortune. He would then pour out a glassful, which he would
offer the young gamekeeper to try himself; should he refuse, he was to
press him so urgently that he would at length be forced to comply.

When Archer should have once tossed off the glass, Mike would wait some
moments until he was in a perfectly sound sleep, when he would be
enabled to steal not only his watch and what else he might have in his
pockets, but also his gun.

The pedlar jumped at the proposition, and armed with his bottle of
drugged wine, he set off the selfsame evening for the spot agreed upon,
followed at a distance by De Chevron himself, just to give the alarm, as
he suggested, by a sharp shrill whistle, should anyone approach to
interrupt their design.

Backed up by the help of De Chevron, the pedlar knew no fear, nor did it
ever enter his head, so blinded was he by greed, that De Chevron could
possibly have any object in thus lending him his help.

The evening arrived. It was now about a week after De Chevron's supposed
departure, and so close had been his confinement to the house all this
time, that I do not believe there was a soul in all the village but
believed that he was absent on business in London at the time.

As the evening agreed upon drew in, De Chevron, disguising himself as
best he might in a large loose cloak that he never had been seen to wear
and a hat unlike that he was known by in the village, set out in the
dusk towards the lonely road, following the pedlar at a considerable
distance. The pedlar advanced towards the spot singing.

"Good morrow, Master Archer," he said, as the young gamekeeper made his
appearance from behind a hedge, "and how does the world go for you?
Easily enough, eh?"

"Well enough, for the matter of that," replied Archer, carelessly.

"Ah! you lucky dog, your bread and butter's cut for life. Wouldn't I
like to be in your shoes without doing you any harm!" said the pedlar.

"Would you?" laughed Archer. "Why, I'm sure you have no reason to
complain of your lot. A pedlar's is a good business."

"Well, I don't exactly complain," replied the pedlar, with proud
humility; "but--but----"

"But," interrupted Archer, "we all like to be a little better off than
we are. Isn't that it?" asked the gamekeeper, with a laugh.

"Well, I dare say you are not far wrong, Archer my boy," said the
pedlar, wheedlingly. "It's natural you know, ain't it? By the way,
Johnny old fellow, do you think you could do an old friend a great
favour? It won't cost you anything. I'm not going to ask you to lend me
any money."

"Well," said John, "what is it?"

"Why, the fact is," said Mike, "that I have got some fine stuffs that
will do for curtains or to cover chairs with. I've got carpets,
mattresses, and I don't know what all. Besides which I have got some
excellent wine, superfine quality, which if you could induce your master
to buy, my fortune would be made."

"It would be useless," answered John Archer. "His lordship never buys
either stuffs or wine from country hawkers, but has up everything from
London."

"Well, I suppose he would, you know, a great man like him. Still, when a
good thing comes in your way, something unique, like this wine of mine,
why, it would be madness to let it slip through your fingers without
even giving it a trial. Look here now." Here he produced the bottle.
"This wine I am in the habit of always carrying about with me as a
sample. Here, just taste it. It'll do your heart good." Here he poured
out a glass.

"Thank you, no," said Archer.

"Nonsense, man," said the pedlar, "what are you afraid of?"

"Nothing," replied Archer, "only I don't care about it, thank you."

"Drink, drink, man. What's the matter with you?"

"Drink it yourself, I won't rob you of it," said John.

"Oh, as to that, Jack my boy, I'm not niggardly in offering my wine,
especially when I meet old friends, you know, besides, I am interested
in your tasting this, because, you see, when you have once drunk this
little glassful you will be better able to speak well of it to your
master, and he _might_ honour me so far as to purchase a dozen. But,
interest apart, take a glass for old friendship's sake, or I shall take
offence. Come, no excuse; here you are!"

John Archer, wearied out by the pedlar's importunities, could resist no
longer, and suspecting nothing, tossed off the glass at a gulp.

"Good, indeed," he had barely time to say, as he gave back the glass.
"Gramercy! how is this? My head swims. I--I----"

He was unable to finish his sentence, but fell like a log to the ground.
The pedlar's eyes glistened as he witnessed the speedy effects of the
drug. In another moment his fingers were fumbling in the waistcoat
pocket of the prostrate John Archer, and he had succeeded in
transferring the watch from the gamekeeper's pocket to his own.

He then began rifling his other pockets, but there was little else worth
taking on poor John's person--a few loose coins, perhaps, nothing more.

At this moment De Chevron came up, and lifting the gun from the ground,
said, "This gun is yours, Mike."

Then, retreating a few paces behind the pedlar, he levelled the gun at
his head, but not being quite correct in his aim, the bullet lodged in
the man's shoulder. Mike gave a yell of agony on finding himself
wounded, but he still might have imagined that the gun had gone off
accidentally and had thus hit him in the shoulder, had not De Chevron
immediately come up and with one tremendous blow on the head from the
butt end of the gun, felled him to the ground.

"Treachery!" feebly gasped out the wretched man.

Then followed a second blow, a third and even a fourth, until the
unhappy dupe spoke no more. To drag the body to a ditch thickly
overgrown with nettles and brambles which completely concealed it from
view was the work of the moment, having previously despoiled the corpse
of its recently acquired treasure and restored the same to the pocket of
its owner, who still lay in the arms of Morpheus. Then replacing the gun
by the side of its sleeping master, and bedaubing the gamekeeper's
clothes with blood, he first poured out the contents of the pedlar's
bottle on the grass, then started homewards.

No one appears to have met him, either before or after the murder.
Circumstances seem to have been peculiarly favourable to him that
evening, for chancing to be excessively windy at that hour, and the road
being of loose white sand, not a single footprint was to be discovered
the next morning. It was somewhere about midnight when John Archer woke
up from his trance. His first wonderment was how he got there. He
imagined that he must in some way or other have become intoxicated. Then
he thought of the pedlar. It was strange, he did not remember having
drunk more than one glass, but it was not until he reached his cot that
he was aware of the plight he was in.

Where did all that blood come from? he asked himself. He must be wounded
he thought. However, he examined himself all over and could discover
nothing. The barrel of his gun was discharged, too, and the butt end of
it stained with blood. He was more bewildered than ever. He then related
the whole of the circumstances to his parents, who, however, could not
bring themselves to believe otherwise than that their son must have been
intoxicated, although his character for sobriety was well known.

The blood stains, however, and the discharged barrel still remained a
mystery and became the subject of much conjecture amongst his friends.
The blood, as he owned himself, did not proceed from any wound he had
received. Whose blood was it then? The butt end of his gun being stained
with blood would argue violence used against some person or animal.

John was known to be an honest and humane man--the very last man in the
world to commit murder; still, under the influence of intoxication he
might have committed a rash act. When questioned as to whether he
remembered anything, he shook his head, and merely related his interview
with the pedlar, from whom he felt confident of not having accepted more
than one glass of wine. His manner throughout all this questioning was
open and frank, and everyone agreed that, mysterious as the affair
appeared, they were quite sure that young Archer was innocent of murder.

The day after, however, a waggoner's dog passing by the scene of the
murder was observed by its master to be sniffing and burrowing in a
certain ditch. The waggoner took no notice of the circumstance at first,
until the dog set up a howl and refused to leave the spot. It then
seemed to be tearing or dragging some heavy substance with its teeth,
and finally succeeded in leaving bare the body of the pedlar. The
pedlar had already been missed in the village, and the waggoner at once
recognised the body. He lost no time in rousing the neighbourhood, for
he dreaded being discovered near the corpse, lest he should be
implicated in the murder.

The body of the pedlar was removed to the nearest cottage, and a surgeon
sent for immediately to examine it. Contrary to everybody's expectation,
the surgeon pronounced that life was not yet extinct, though he held out
no hopes at all of ultimate recovery.

He did all he could do under the circumstances, gave his instructions to
the inmates of the cottage, and said that he would call again. Then
arose the question, who could be the perpetrator of the deed? Suspicion
immediately attached itself to John Archer.

Witnesses came forward and deposed that they had met John Archer with
blood on his clothes and the butt end of his rifle also stained with
blood. The wounds on the head of the all-but murdered man appeared to
have been inflicted by the butt end of a rifle, therefore this was
strong evidence; but there was yet stronger. The bullet having been
extracted from the dying man's shoulder, was at once recognised by all
as belonging to John Archer, his bullets being marked always in a
peculiar manner, added to which it fitted exactly into the bore of
Archer's rifle.

This last evidence was considered conclusive, and John Archer was
conducted off to prison to await his trial at the next assizes. Imagine
the grief and dismay of poor John's aged parents, who had looked forward
to his being the prop of their old age, at hearing that their only son
had been arrested on a charge of murder. Imagine the shame and confusion
of John himself, the surprise and indignation of his intimate friends,
including ourselves, who still believed in his innocence.

As for poor Claribel, she was struck completely dumb at the news; she
could not believe her ears. It was not for a considerable time that she
could realise the fact; but when she did, she neither fainted, burst
into tears, nor behaved in any way extravagantly. Her grief was too
deeply seated. She moped about the house with her eyes fixed, as if she
were walking in her sleep. It was just this calm, in a nature like hers,
that I dreaded far more than any violent transport of grief, for I
feared that the shock had been too great for her, and had turned her
brain. What made the affair doubly painful to her was that the village
people had already begun to couple her name with John Archer's.

Folks speaking of the arrest would say that it was Claribel Falkland's
young man that had been arrested for murder, although there had never
been anything like an engagement between them.

When she recovered herself somewhat, she said, "Molly, depend upon it,
that De Chevron is at the bottom of this."

Now, although I knew De Chevron to be a hardened villain and capable of
any atrocity, I did not see myself how he could possibly be connected
with the murder, he being absent from the village at the time. Neither
did I for a moment believe John Archer capable of the crime. The
evidence against him was singularly unfortunate, it is true; but no one
who knew the man as intimately as we did could really have believed him
guilty. It was clear that someone must have committed the murder. Who,
then, was likely to have done so?

De Chevron was a villain, we knew, but that was no proof that he was the
murderer. However, I excused this seeming unreasonableness in my friend,
considering the state of her mind at the time, and merely suggested:

"But he is in London, my dear."

"I tell you he is mixed up in the affair," persisted Claribel. "I was
warned of this in my dream."

"I fear that would have little weight in a court of justice," I replied.

"De Chevron is the murderer, and no one else," she persisted, doggedly.

"But, my dear Claribel," said I, soothingly, "allowing that he is a
wicked, heartless villain, just think for a moment how you would support
your accusation in a court of law. A pedlar is found murdered in a
ditch, and a gentleman of De Chevron's condition now in London, where he
has been for the last week, is accused of the murder. Consider the
absurdity of the idea."

"How do you know he has been in London all the time?" asked my friend.

"Well, I grant you, I did not see him go," said I; "but when a man
gives out that he is going away from a place, and has not been seen by
anyone since, especially when it is in a little village like this, where
everybody knows everybody else's business, the probability is that he
has left."

"Do not be too sure," said Claribel. "We must examine into the affair."

"Oh, that is easily done," said I; "but even should he not have
departed, if he should have changed his mind and remained here, what
does that prove? Besides, what motive could a gentleman have in taking
the life of a poor, unknown, itinerant pedlar?"

"To lay the blame on John Archer, his rival, and get him into trouble,"
was my friend's reply. "Do you not think him capable?"

"I think him capable of anything that's bad," said I; "but that's not
the point. You must, first of all, have reason enough on your side to
prove that he did, which you have not. Look, now, at the evidence
against young Archer. A young man returns home to his family after
midnight, his clothes disordered and bloodstained, his gun discharged,
and the butt end of it clotted with blood. When questioned, he is unable
to give any satisfactory account of himself. Says he remembers nothing
but having accepted one glass of wine from a pedlar. He relates that he
woke up towards midnight and discovered that he had been sleeping for
hours in the open air, near to the spot where the body of the pedlar is
found on the day following.

"His friends do not believe him guilty because, forsooth, he has earned
a reputation for truthfulness, steadiness, and sobriety; yet might not
the opposite party contend that it was not impossible that he might,
once in his life, have broken through his custom of rigid abstinence,
and in a moment of intoxication, picking a quarrel with the pedlar,
first discharged his gun at him--for, remember that the bullet extracted
from the pedlar's shoulder has been recognised as Archer's bullet--and
afterwards, finding his adversary not mortally wounded, had hastened his
death by knocking out his brains with the butt end of his rifle. That he
had afterwards himself fallen into a drunken sleep and entirely
forgotten the events of the preceding evening is not at all impossible.
This would be the more charitable way of looking at the affair; but,
alas, there is another circumstance that puts it in a more serious
light, and that is the hiding of the body. The body has been discovered
in a ditch, carefully concealed from view by weeds and brambles. This
argues reason. Is it probable that a man who commits homicide in a
drunken brawl, being so drunk at the time as to fall down on the damp
ground and sleep there the whole night through, that he should have been
sufficiently master of himself to drag off the body of his victim and
successfully conceal it from view in an overgrown ditch?"

"I cannot and will not believe him so base as to be guilty of wilful
murder, neither will I believe that he committed homicide in a fit of
intoxication. If he took the pedlar's life at all--I say _if_ he
did--why, then I lean towards the belief that he did it whilst under
some evil spell of Richard de Chevron's. What do you believe, Molly?"

"No matter, dear, what I believe," said I; "I am a woman, like yourself,
and too likely to be influenced by my feelings. I do not wish to believe
him guilty, and should be very much surprised and horror-struck if he
really were so, after the good opinion we all have had of him. But all
that goes for nothing. I merely tell you how the world will judge him."

Poor Claribel could not help seeing that it was likely to go hard with
John.

"Oh! if they should condemn him unjustly and execute him!" she cried, in
agony.

Poor child! It was all I could do to comfort her. I told her the law was
not rash in condemning anyone to death; that inquiries would be made,
that the real perpetrator of the deed could not fail to be discovered,
sooner or later, when he would suffer the penalty of the law, and the
innocent man be acquitted. I had attempted to excite hopes in her that I
myself dared hardly entertain, and that she, poor child, I could see,
looked upon as poor consolation.

We both retired to rest that night with heavy hearts, but the next
morning Claribel woke up with a smile on her face, although she looked
very pale and worn.

"Molly, dear, I saw him last night," she said.

"Did you, really? What, John Archer?" I asked, for I no longer now
doubted her word when she spoke in this manner.

"Yes," she replied, "and I promised to call again to give him
consolation."

"How did you manage to speak to him?" I asked.

"By signs only; but he understood me."

"Was he asleep?" I asked.

"No; he was tossing restlessly on his pallet."

"Then he could not possibly imagine he had been dreaming."

"I think not, as this is the second time I have appeared to him in the
spirit."

"I remember you told me once before that you had seen him, and he
himself confirmed it, although I know that you never left the house that
day. But, tell me, did no one see you enter?"

"What matter if they did? Bolts and bars are no obstacles to a spirit."

"And you passed through prison walls and bolted doors without
opposition?"

"I did, and I promised that I should be with him again in his cell as
the clock struck two, so that he might be quite sure that he had not
been dreaming."

"You will keep your appointment, of course?" I said.

"If I do not, I do not know who it will be that will prevent me."

Here our conversation ceased, and we passed our time as usual until it
drew towards two o'clock in the afternoon, when my friend suddenly
stopped in the middle of talking and said,

"Do not disturb me, Molly dear, or allow anyone else to. I am going to
John."

Then throwing herself back in an arm-chair, she appeared almost
immediately in a sound sleep, resembling a swoon. I then observed, as it
were, two outlines to her form, for a cloudy substance like a halo began
to envelop her, which, widening as it rose upwards, from the body began
to solidify or partially so, and to assume the exact form and features
of Claribel. Having separated itself from her person, it passed rapidly
before my face like a gust of wind, causing my hair to stir and crackle
as if singed with a candle,[20] and passing head foremost through the
window with inconceivable velocity was instantly lost to my view.

An indescribable feeling of horror passed over me at being left thus
alone with what appeared to be the corpse of my friend. The next moment
my father entered the room, and fearing lest he should wake my friend in
the middle of her trance by his talking, I ran to the door and begged he
would not enter, as Claribel felt rather poorly and he might awake her,
so he prudently retired to another room, when I gently turned the key of
the door and kept watch close to the clay of my friend until the spirit
should return to re-animate it.

Let us now take a peep at John in prison. Poor fellow! He had not slept
a wink all night. He rose worn and languid. Disdaining his frugal
breakfast of bread and water, with arms folded, eyes fixed and head sunk
upon his breast, he paced dejectedly up and down the narrow limits of
his cell.

"Is this John Archer?" he soliloquised. "Is this the man once surrounded
by friends, the hope and pride of his parents, the favoured servant of
Lord Edgedown, honoured and respected by all, now handcuffed and led off
to prison on a charge of murder to await an ignominious trial, and
probably be condemned to hang by the neck till he is dead in the
presence of a jeering rabble? It cannot be. I must be transformed. I
must be dreaming. This is not John Archer. Is John Archer a murderer?
Can I really have committed a murder in a state of delirium which has
obliterated all recollection of the crime committed? It must be so. How
else could I have slept all night on the bare ground and on awaking find
my gun discharged, my clothes bloodstained, and even the butt end of my
rifle besmeared with blood?

"How is all this to be accounted for? I must have committed murder. Who
will believe me if I assert my innocence, or how will the law be brought
to look upon the crime as committed during temporary insanity? No; I
shall be found guilty, condemned, and executed. I do believe that the
vision of last night that appeared to me bearing the form and features
of Claribel was my guardian angel come to apprise me of my doom.

"Oh, Claribel, Claribel! must we then for ever be parted? But what was
that vision? Claribel in the flesh? For so it appeared; for sure it was
no dream, yet how could that be? Could she herself have broken through
bolts and bars or obtained a pass to speak to me alone? Impossible! Was
it, perchance, some fiend having taken upon himself the likeness of
those divine features in order so to mock me? Or was it merely an
hallucination of my distempered brain? Whatever it was, I would that it
were here again so that I might feast my eyes once more upon its lovely
features ere I die."

He paused suddenly, for now, whether it were some trick of the senses,
some hallucination conjured up by his over-excited brain, in the
opposite corner of his cell something like a bluish vapour appeared,
which seemed to grow denser, to solidify until it grew into the
semblance of a human form, bearing the features of--whom?

"Claribel!" gasped out the prisoner, hardly above his breath, for his
voice died within him and he remained awe-stricken. "What! Do I rave?
Oh, beauteous image! Claribel! Claribel! Tell me, oh, my guardian angel,
hast thou come to announce my doom, to solace my last moments? Oh, if
it be thou indeed, Claribel, in the flesh and no delusion of my senses,
come to me, let me feel the pressure of thy hand."

At this moment he sprang forward and attempted to seize the hand of the
figure, which he had no sooner touched than it melted in his grasp,
causing him to feel such a supernatural terror that he staggered
backwards and gave an involuntary shriek.

The figure put its finger to its lip, the forefinger of the very hand
that had vanished into thin air at the material touch of John Archer,
but which had immediately resumed its previously defined form upon the
withdrawing of Archer's hand.

"Angel or fiend!" he exclaimed. "Whatever thou art, that comest to me in
this lovely guise, declare thy mission, unveil to me the future, and
spare not mine ears if my doom be sealed. If there be hope----"

Here the figure again put its finger to its lip in token of silence, for
Archer, now somewhat over his first surprise, spoke no longer in a husky
whisper, but in a loud voice.

"Tell me, tell me," continued the prisoner, lowering his voice, "thou
who seemest no being of this world, and who doubtless art cognisant of
secrets beyond our ken, tell me in pity how I have deserved this fate.
Say, have these hands really been dyed in the blood of one of my
fellow-men during the lapse of some passing insanity? Say, why am I
here? Dost thou, O spirit, think me guilty?"

The phantom answered not, save by a look of commiseration and a slow
shake of the head.

"I see that thou thinkest me not guilty. I thank thee for that. Mine
innocence may yet be proved."

The spectre's features lighted up with a look of hope, as if it would
answer "I wish it may."

"Angelic being!" he pursued, "vouchsafe me but one word. Say, will the
true murderer be found?"

Another look of hope lighted up the spirit's features.

"He will, he will; I feel he will!" exclaimed the prisoner,
enthusiastically. "Thank Heaven! But one word more. Dost know the
criminal?"

The same look again, accompanied this time by a slight inclination of
the head.

"Ah! thou knowest him? His name, his name; tell me!" Here the figure
appeared somewhat confused, as if struggling to speak; then gliding
rather than walking up to the wall of the cell, it traced with its
finger the letters of a name in characters that appeared burnt into the
stone, during which operation a crackling sound was heard similar to
that before alluded to, and Archer, who had watched the movements of the
figure with straining eyeballs and in breathless silence, gave a yell of
surprise and agony as he read the name _Richard de Chevron_, and sank on
the floor of his dungeon in a swoon.

A jingling of keys in the passage was now audible, and the next moment
the jailor had entered the cell. Hearing the voice of the prisoner
discoursing loudly, curiosity had led him to the door of his cell, but
what was his dismay and consternation at finding the prisoner in a swoon
on the floor, whilst over him, as if to protect him, lent the fair
youthful form of a maiden, who after fixing her eyes intently for a
moment, pointed to the writing on the wall.

The jailor, perfectly dumbfounded, would have asked her in surly tones,
how she came there, and who let her in, but the presence of the figure
filled him, in spite of himself, with such awe that he could not utter a
word. Then glancing at the writing on the wall and then again at the
figure of the maiden, who looked at him in a manner that made him feel
he knew not how, as he afterwards declared, he observed her rise to her
feet, retreat one pace, and pointing once more to the writing on the
wall, gradually dissolved herself into a mist and disappeared from his
sight.

The jailor's courage now fairly left him, his knees knocked together in
a panic, and he dropped his bunch of keys on the ground. At length
recovering from his first surprise, he gazed around him, and found
himself alone with the prisoner, who was still in his swoon. The first
thing that he did was to secure the door of the cell, then walking up to
the prisoner, shook him roughly, and assailed him with questions.

"Beautiful vision!" cried Archer, now awaking from his swoon, "thou has
saved my life by denouncing the true murderer. Were it not for thee I
might---- But where art thou? Gone--Fled? Has it, then, been all a
dream? Oh!" he groaned, as his eyes caught the jailor bending over him.

"Come, be of good cheer, young man," said the jailor, kindly. "It was no
dream, or if it was, we have both been dreaming, and had the same dream.
I, too, saw the lady. I'll swear to that in any court of justice. Well,
I never believed in ghosts before, young man. I never did, upon my word,
but after what I have just seen with these eyes----"

"What! you saw her, too?" interrupted Archer. "You? Then it was no
dream, but a divine vision sent by Providence to preserve the innocent.
Look, there is her writing on the wall."

"What means that name, young man?" asked the jailor, gravely.

"She traced it with her own finger. I asked her to reveal to me the name
of the true murderer, and that was the name she traced upon the wall."

"You are not imposing upon me, young man?" inquired the jailor,
suspiciously.

"Not I," answered Archer, frankly. "Did you not see her yourself?"

"True, true," quoth the jailor; "I remember that she pointed to the
writing and then vanished. Well, upon my soul, I do not know what to
think of the matter. I have been here thirty years come Michaelmas, but
what I have seen to-day passes all the experience of Miles Gratelock.
I'll inform the authorities of what has taken place at once, and I'll
yet hope to see you out of this place; for to tell you the honest
truth, lad, I don't think you capable of the murder, and never did; yet
appearances," he added, "appearances, you know, must be taken into
consideration, and they are often against us. However, we'll hope for
the best."

Here the kindly jailor left the cell, and locking the door after him
went straight to the authorities and laid the whole matter of the vision
before them. As may be anticipated, the story was ridiculed. Some said
that the jailor had been bribed by the prisoner to concoct such a
narrative; others declared that the jailor must have been drunk, and
having forgotten to lock the door of the cell some young female may have
found admittance, and to cover his negligence he had trumped up this
improbable story.

They, however, took the trouble to visit the cell of the prisoner and to
examine the writing on the wall, which they all declared themselves to
be at a loss to guess with what material the prisoner himself could have
written the name. The prisoner was questioned and cross-questioned, but
was not found to contradict himself in anything. A piece of chalk was
then put into the prisoner's hand and he was ordered to write the same
name underneath that supposed to have been written by the spirit, but
the handwriting was perfectly dissimilar. The jailor was then called,
and had to do the same, but neither in this case did the writing at all
resemble the burnt characters on the wall.

Now, however mysterious this affair might have appeared to the
authorities, yet to convict a gentleman of De Chevron's standing, or
indeed any man upon such evidence as this, would be as absurd as it
would be unfair; nevertheless, the story of the apparition in the
prisoner's cell and of the writing on the wall spread like wildfire
through the village, and had the effect of shaking the belief of many
who had hitherto believed Archer guilty, and confirming more than ever
in their previous belief those who still maintained him innocent.

The general currency of this story, too, gave rise to inquiries as to
the intimacy that had existed between John Archer and De Chevron. A
certain amount of intimacy it was proved had existed between them, but
so far the evidence was rather on De Chevron's side, as witnesses came
forward to prove that De Chevron had always shown himself most friendly
towards young Archer, and had occasionally made him some trifling
present.

There was no evidence that they had ever fallen out together, and
therefore there was no reason at all to suspect De Chevron of the
malicious conduct attributed to him of committing a murder himself in
order that an innocent man should be convicted of it. To strengthen the
absurdity of the supposition, it was alleged that De Chevron had been
absent in London at the time of the murder, thereby proving an _alibi_.
Others not being satisfied with this statement, desired that it should
be proved beyond doubt that De Chevron was in London at the time. Upon
examination, however, the evidence was not quite so favourable to De
Chevron this time. More than one witness deposed to having seen him at
the window, although he had not been seen out of doors. It was proved
that he had never quitted the village, although he had given out to his
friends his intention of going to London; but he sought to exculpate
himself by saying that he had announced to his friends his intended
departure for London in order that he might avoid visits and enjoy the
strictest seclusion for a time, as he was studying for the law.

This excuse was deemed sufficient, and might have satisfied all parties,
had not still more startling evidence turned up. In the meantime the all
but defunct pedlar had sufficiently recovered in order to give a
detailed account of the occurrences on the night of the murder, and of
De Chevron's duplicity and treachery, although he owned himself at a
loss to conceive the motive of the attempted murder.

He acquitted John Archer of being implicated in any way in the crime,
and denounced De Chevron as a double-dealing murderous villain. His
evidence was taken down in writing by the surgeon who attended him, in
the presence of several witnesses, and it was proposed that both John
Archer and De Chevron should be confronted with the dying man.

This was accordingly done. The half-murdered pedlar managed to sustain
life by an almost preternatural effort until the arrival of the two
individuals. Upon the appearance of De Chevron his eye kindled with an
incredible animation, considering his dying state, and although his
utterance was now difficult, he succeeded in denouncing him as his
murderer in sufficiently plain terms to be understood by all present.
When his eye caught John Archer, the dying man stretched forth his hand
to him, craved his pardon for the evil he had done him, but adding that
it was all at the instigation of De Chevron, for the carrying out of
some private scheme of his own. De Chevron endeavoured to justify
himself, alleging that the man raved and that such testimony could not
be depended upon. The pedlar, however, had given his evidence so clearly
and concisely that it was accounted valid, after which he sank back and
expired.

Now, whilst the evidence of the pedlar that had been taken down was
being read out mention was made of the bottle of drugged wine said to
have been given to the pedlar by De Chevron in order to carry out his
base designs. A search was accordingly made for the bottle, which, being
found, though empty--or, rather, nearly so--it was taken to a chemist,
who found sufficient of the liquor left to analyse, which, when done, it
was pronounced to contain narcotics of the most potent sort.

The house of De Chevron was next searched, and in a secret drawer of his
desk was discovered a powder which upon being examined proved to contain
similar ingredients to those discovered in the dregs of the wine at the
bottom of the bottle. Besides this powder were found at De Chevron's
lodgings sundry bottles of wine, all bearing exactly the same label as
that found in the ditch close to the murdered man.

This evidence was considered conclusive, and De Chevron was seized for
the purpose of being conducted to prison; but, despairing now of ever
getting acquitted, and dreading to fall into the hands of justice, the
miserable man suddenly drew out a pistol from his pocket, and holding
the barrel to his forehead blew out his brains on the spot.

This last rash deed of De Chevron's caused even more sensation in the
village and the parts adjacent than the mysterious murder of the pedlar.
The wretched suicide was interred without obsequies in the centre of two
cross roads, with a stake driven through his body, according to the
usual custom.

I need not say that John Archer was freely acquitted, and welcomed once
more among us with hearty cheers. Even those who had been the most
bitter against him at first now came forward to extend to him the hand
of friendship.

How the poor lad seemed to enjoy his liberty after his incarceration!
But yesterday imprisoned for murder, shunned by all his friends and
hated by everybody, with the prospect of an ignominious death before
him. To-day openly acquitted, restored to the bosom of his family,
surrounded by his friends, and receiving their congratulations. In an
instant he had forgotten all his past woes, and thought himself amply
compensated for all his suffering by being again allowed to visit his
lady-love.

I will leave you to imagine, gentlemen, the joy of us all, and
especially of Claribel, at John's acquittal, as well as the importunate
questioning of the neighbours concerning the apparition of Claribel to
John within the prison cell.

There are many people who profess to know their neighbours' business
better than they do themselves. According to this sort of people--and
there are many in the village to this day--John Archer's marriage with
Claribel Falkland was a thing already settled. The day had been fixed
upon, and all was in order--in fact the kindly neighbours had made
everything as easy as possible for the young couple, whereas John had
never yet opened his lips in the way of love to the idol of his heart,
being, as I have before mentioned, of a shy and reserved temperament.
Yet so sure were the neighbours of John's private affairs, that one of
his friends said jocularly that when their banns should be published in
church that he would stand up and forbid them, as in marrying Claribel
he would be committing bigamy, seeing that she could make herself two
persons at once. Would that the neighbours had been in the right as to
the future of this pair, for a couple better suited for each other could
not have been found; but, alas, who is master of his fate? Who can pry
into the secret ways of Providence? It little boots to speculate on what
the future of these two amiable and ingenuous natures would have been
if everything had gone well, for a dire fate was in store for them. But
let me not anticipate.

It was a winter morning, but remarkably fine for that time of the year,
when Claribel and I went out together for a ramble in an adjacent wood.
We had been laughing and chatting by the way, when suddenly I observed
the features of my friend to become overcast. When I inquired the reason
of her sadness, she replied,

"I know not how it is, Molly, but somehow or other I feel as if some
danger were threatening John."

Now, I had long ceased to laugh at her for what I used to look upon as
mere nervous fancies, so many of them having proved well founded, but I
merely suggested to her that perhaps she did not feel well, and that we
had better return home.

"Yes, yes, Molly," she said; "for Heaven's sake let us return at once,
as I feel more and more sure that poor John is in some danger. You
remember my presentiment about Richard de Chevron, which you laughed at.
Was that well founded or not? Well, as I felt certain then that some
harm was in store for John, so do I now. Come, let us hasten our steps."

"God forbid," said I, "that poor John should fall a victim a second time
to treachery or witchcraft," and we hurried home, never halting until we
reached my father's house.

On entering the parlour Claribel gave a hasty glance at the glazed
cupboard where she had placed the waxen image intended as a likeness of
John Archer, and which she had not looked at for ever so long. It was
wanting.

"Molly!" she cried, in great anxiety, "where is the waxen image? What
can have become of it? Just ask your father if he has removed it."

Now, being winter time, there was a blazing fire in the room, and my
father, who was at this time laid up with the gout, would draw himself
up to it and smoke his yard of clay. He was absent from the parlour when
we entered, but we found his chair ready placed for him.

"Good heavens! Molly, what's this?" cried Claribel, in alarm, as she
touched the mantelpiece over the fireplace. "Can it be? No; yes, it
_is_--_the waxen image molten away_! Who can have done it? Oh, wretched
being that I am! Go, and at once, to the house of John, and inquire
after his health."

I was preparing to execute her commission, and was just upon setting out
alone to John's house, which was not far from our own, when one of the
neighbours, a woman--one of the most notorious gossips of the place,
whose sole delight was to be the first to deliver bad news--met me at
the door as I was just going out.

"Oh, Molly my dear, have you heard the sad news? Lack-a-day! who'd have
thought it? Oh, lauk-a-daisy-me! poor Claribel! how she will take on
about it to be sure!"

"Speak out, woman!" cried Claribel, from the parlour, for she had heard
every word through the open door. "Speak out. What has happened?"

"Oh Lord! my dear, that poor young man John Archer, as you appears to
have been so fond of well, my dear, he's gone--yes, _dead_, struck down
by a sudden fever, they say--in the very spring-time of his youth; it's
hardly a quarter of an hour since, so I thought I'd come at once to tell
you."

This communication, partly interrupted by sobs and partly by want of
breath, for the bearer of the sad news had set off as fast as her legs
could carry her, in order to be the first to communicate it, had a
terrible effect on the nervous system of my poor friend Claribel.
Forgetting her usual self-composure in her extreme anguish, she gave
utterance to a shriek so piercing and doleful, that it seemed to shake
the very house to its foundations, and sank back into the nearest chair
in a swoon. The scream brought my father to the door to inquire what was
the matter, while the good neighbour--for in spite of her mania for
delivering bad news, she was still a woman at heart--bustled about to
procure restoratives and to sprinkle water on my poor friend's face
until she recovered.

The news we had heard was only too true, for, sad to relate, poor John
Archer, who up to that very morning had been the picture of robust
health, suddenly fell the victim of a violent fever that carried him off
within a few hours. The doctors were at a loss to account for the
disease, as there was no fever at that time in the neighbourhood. It was
an isolated case. During his delirium he was heard to give vent to
certain incoherent ravings, frequently calling out, "The waxen image!
the waxen image!" He was heard to couple the names of De Chevron and
Madge Mandrake together, but the bystanders, his parents, understood
nothing of his meaning.

There remains little more to relate. It appears that my father when left
alone in the house had been prying into every nook and corner of it for
his snuff-box, which he had lost, until he stumbled upon the little
waxen image in the glazed cupboard, of the history of which he knew
nothing, but which he instantly recognised as intended for a likeness of
John Archer, imagining that either myself or Claribel had been amusing
ourselves with endeavouring to represent the lineaments of our common
friend in wax, and thinking it very good and clever, he thought it would
make a pretty chimney ornament, and accordingly placed it on the
mantelpiece when the fire was yet low. Afterwards, he had heaped on
fuel, being very cold that day, and shortly afterwards had been called
away by a neighbour on business. In the meantime the fire had blazed up
and so heated the room that before he returned to the parlour there was
nothing left of the effigy of John Archer but a shapeless heap of wax.

On recovering from the swoon my poor friend reproached herself in the
severest terms with not having foreseen such a contingency, adding that
she alone had been the cause of John's death, as she ought to have
locked the cupboard and taken away the key. I strove to reason with her
and comfort her, but she was deaf to all consolation. The sad event of
John's death had cast a gloom over us all. As for Claribel, poor soul,
it was a shock from which she never recovered. She drooped and pined
away from that hour, and outlived young Archer but one month. Peace be
to their ashes!

       *       *       *       *       *

On concluding her affecting narrative, our worthy hostess thrust a
corner of her apron into her eye in order to staunch a rising tear
called into existence by tender recollections of her poor deceased
friend and her unfortunate lover, but she was soon cut short in the
indulgence of her grief by the boisterous applause that simultaneously
ensued from all the members of the club. This was the cheering and
clapping of hands before alluded to that had attracted the attention of
our artist while painting from the fair Helen in the opposite room, and
which, as our reader will recollect, was the signal for the young
portrait painter to commence his Italian story of "The Three Pauls."

"And so that rascal De Chevron cheated the gallows after all," broke in
Mr. Oldstone, during the pause that succeeded the tumultuous cheering
that greeted the relation of Dame Hearty.

"But what became of Madge Mandrake? You have not told us that. She
didn't escape scot-free, surely?"

"Well, you see, sir, the law had no actual hold on her," replied the
hostess; "but I have every reason to believe that she died hard. She was
discovered dead one day on the floor of her hovel, in her day clothes,
her eyes fixed and starting from her head, her features distorted, and
her fingers extended like claws, as if grasping the floor. Some thought
she had died in a fit, but, whatever the cause of her death, it is
certain she must have suffered great agony, and I cannot look upon the
mode of her death otherwise than as a judgment for her many sins. She
had never been known to enter a church within the memory of man, and
though she had led a notoriously bad life, it seems that the parish
could not deny her a Christian burial, and she was interred in the old
churchyard yonder with all due ceremony, but report said at the time
that she had frequently been seen since by those who happened to be
passing through the churchyard late at night or thereabouts, and that
should a thunderstorm burst over the head of the benighted traveller, as
he wended his weary steps past this abode of the dead, a shadowy form
with a steeple-crowned hat and astride on a broomstick might be seen
riding through the murky air, and behind her a black tom cat with a pair
of flame-coloured eyes. Yells and groans, mingled with demoniacal
laughter, were said to have been heard, as if proceeding from beneath
the ground by those who happened to pass through the churchyard close to
her grave after nightfall. Owls, bats, carrion crows, and other obscene
birds would be found perched on the head of her grave, and, scared at
the footsteps of a stranger, would fly screeching away.

"At least, this is what the country folk would say; but never having
seen nor heard any of these things myself, gentlemen, I cannot vouch for
their authenticity, yet there are few folks in the village to this day
but would not put themselves much out of the way in order to avoid
passing through that same churchyard on a stormy night."

"In fact," remarked Mr. Crucible, "there is every reason to believe that
the old lady was d----"

A storm had for some time past been gathering overhead, and just then a
terrific clap of thunder prevented the conclusion of Mr. Crucible's
sentence from being audible.

"Lauk-a-daisy-me! what a peal!" exclaimed Dame Hearty. "It was enough to
shake the house down. I'm terrible frightened of thunder. It makes me
feel alloverish like."

"I shouldn't wonder," suggested Mr. Blackdeed, "if old Madge on her
broomstick should be riding overhead. Just go out and see, Dame Hearty,
will you?"

"Not I, sir, not for the world," quoth our hostess. "And pray don't talk
of that horrible person in such weather, or I shall go off in a fit.
Already I begin to fancy I see her before me, with her nose and chin
meeting like a lobster's claws, with hardly room enough between them for
a decent-sized hazel nut.

"How I can call to mind, too, her grizzly beard, like a well-used
scrubbing brush, that left you in doubt as to whether she really could
belong to our sex! Then her beetle brows overhanging her sockets like a
dragoon's moustache, and all but concealing her small deeply-sunk and
viperish eyes, which gleamed with envy, hatred, malice, and all
uncharitableness."

"There, did you see that flash!" exclaimed Dr. Bleedem. "Just wait a
moment; here it comes."

A second tremendous crash resounded, causing the window panes to
revibrate and the whole house to rock to its foundations.

"Lord have mercy upon us!" cried the hostess in extreme terror.

"That is a judgment sent on you by old Madge for speaking ill of her,"
said Professor Cyanite.

"Oh! hold your tongue, naughty man, do," said our hostess, half
playfully, half in terror. "Here comes the rain in torrents. How it
pours! Well, gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, I've got to attend to the
house."

"Certainly," cried several members at once, "and many thanks for your
very interesting story."

Our hostess curtseyed, said they were very welcome, and left the room.

FOOTNOTES:

[20] A better simile would be "as if charged with electricity," or "like
sparks emitted from an electric machine," as this case, which is founded
on fact, and which, together with other similar phenomena, is probably
of electric origin. (_Vide_ Mrs. CROW'S "Nightside of Nature.") Yet we
must bear in mind that we are speaking at a time before electricity
created that furor in the world that succeeded the discoveries of
Benjamin Franklin, and that it is only an unsophisticated country
landlady who is speaking, whose science goes no further than the making
of an apple pudding, roasting a leg of mutton, or frying a beefsteak.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER V.

IN WHICH OCCURS MR. PARNASSUS' BALLAD--THE CHIEFTAIN'S DESTINY.

"Wretched weather, eh?" remarked Mr. Oldstone. "We shall have to call
for lights soon. Here, Cyanite, a game of chess, what do you say? A
story from whom ever loses."

"Thank you," replied the Professor, "but I have a letter to write which
is of some importance."

"Come now, Crucible, have at _you_," quoth Oldstone.

"I have not played for years," replied Crucible, "and as I have no story
wherewith to pay the penalty and am consequently out of practice and
sure to lose and----"

"What do you say, Blackdeed?" asked Oldstone.

"Well, to say the truth," answered the chemist, "I find myself much in
the same position as my friend Mr. Crucible, for were I to lose, an
event which amounts to a dead certainty, I am perfectly sure I should
not be able to pay the forfeit, even if I were to be imprisoned for
it."

"Perhaps you'll oblige me, Hardcase," said the antiquary.

"Another time, thank you, Oldstone," replied the lawyer; "but the fact
is that I've promised Bleedem a game of cards."

"Well really, gentlemen, I don't know what has come over you all," said
Mr. Oldstone. "Perhaps Mr. Parnassus will oblige me, as nobody else
will."

"Well, I never piqued myself upon being much of a chess-player," replied
Parnassus, "but as the other gentlemen have refused, and I have nothing
particular to do, I don't mind doing you a favour, and if I lose and
don't happen to recollect a story, well I must owe it you."

"Agreed," said Oldstone. "Draw your chair to the table and set the
board."

The game began. Hardcase and Bleedem also had taken their seats and
commenced theirs. Professor Cyanite retired to write his letter, whilst
Messrs. Blackdeed and Crucible drew their chairs up to the fire and
talked politics.

A stillness reigned through the club as the last-mentioned gentlemen
conversed together in a low tone and the rest remained absorbed in their
several occupations. Suddenly, in the midst of this unusual silence, the
triumphant voice of Mr. Oldstone was heard to cry out the magic word,
"check-mate."

"Now then, Parnassus, my boy," said he, rubbing his hands, "a story, you
know; there's no getting out of it. Give us a little ode or ballad like
that you gave us once before, on the night of our grand saturnalia."

"When I can think of one and a propitious moment presents itself, I am
at your service, but these gentlemen, you see, are otherwise occupied;
besides, here comes Helen to lay the cloth for supper."

"Well, Helen," cried Mr. Oldstone, "and what has become of your
enamoured portrait painter?"

"Mr. McGuilp?" inquired Helen, blushing deeply. "Is he not here? I left
him some time ago cleaning his palette and brushes."

"Ah! here he comes at last," exclaimed Crucible, halting in the middle
of his politics. "Lucky dog! to be able to have so much beauty all to
himself."

"Well, if he _has_ had Helen to himself all this time, we've had a story
during his absence," said the antiquary.

"Ah, but so have we," said McGuilp. "Haven't we Helen?"

"Yes, we have indeed, and a long one," replied Helen.

"The deuce you have," said Crucible. "Upon my word, Mr. McGuilp, I think
that's hardly fair; first robbing us of our lady and then telling her a
story all to yourself, from which we are debarred."

"Come now," retorted McGuilp, "are we not quits? Have you already
forgotten my story of the 'Scharfrichter,' with which I purchased a
sitting from Helen? If Helen and I have had a story together from which
you have been shut out, at least you have had one that we have not
enjoyed."

"Yes, Crucible, I think it is all fair," said Oldstone, backing up his
young friend.

The cloth now being laid, the members drew their chairs to the table,
and the supper went off amidst laughter and jovial conversation. The
bottle went round a few times at the last before the cloth was finally
cleared, when each drew round the fire, which was now blazing fiercely,
our host having just put on a fresh log, and each lighting his pipe,
waited, according to custom, for someone to broach a new story.

"Now, Parnassus, my boy," said Oldstone, "we are quite ready for your
story. What is it to be?"

"Well then, gentlemen, since I must pay my forfeit, I will, according to
a wish expressed by Mr. Oldstone, sing you a little ballad of my own
composing."

"Yes, yes; hear, hear! A song, a song! Make ready for a song."

The members re-settled themselves on their chairs, and pronounced
themselves "all attention," while the young poet, throwing himself back
carelessly in his chair and crossing one leg over the other, began in a
clear rich voice, the following ditty.

THE CHIEFTAIN'S DESTINY.

CANTO THE FIRST.

    A skiff is seen upon the main,
    The purple wave of Oman's sea;
    Her prow doth long to kiss again
    The perfumed shores of Araby.
    A gentle Zephyr fills the sail.
    But, ah, too soft, too mild the gale
    For one on board, who, mounted high,
    Scans the far shore with eagle eye.

    'Tis Selim's bark that, long away,
    Hath wandered on the salt sea foam,
    And brings him after many a day
    Back to this land, though not his home.
    What in the distance glads his eye?
    A sight none other can descry--
    The kerchief he his mistress gave
    Now from her casement high doth wave.

    The signal yet is but a speck,
    The cloud has vanished from his brow;
    Yet chafing still, he walks the deck
    Impatiently from helm to prow,
    As if his eagerness could urge
    His vessel faster through the surge.
    But as the craft now nigher drew,
    The signal note his swarthy crew.

    Now gaily speeds the gallant bark,
    Soon within grasp of land once more;
    The sun has set, yet 'tis not dark.
    Each swarthy sailor leaps ashore,
    Yet almost ere they can alight
    Their captain scales a dizzy height,
    And in the moonlight hand in hand
    Two lovers at the casement stand.

    "Oh, Selim! why this long delay?"
    A soft voice whispers 'neath the moon.
    "I've wept for thee full many a day,
    Watching the sea from morn till noon,
    In hope-- But hist! there're footsteps nigh;
    The Caliph keeps a watchful eye.
    The moon is up, thou must be gone--
    One kiss. Farewell. We meet at dawn."

    Zuleika to her bower turned--
    Her jasmine bower's perfumed shade;
    A fever in her bosom burned.
    That night upon her couch being laid,
    The nightingale that woos the rose
    Breaks not so much on her repose
    As the loud beating of her heart
    With feelings she will ne'er impart

    To mortal man, save him alone
    Who wooed and won her from her sire.
    Her love in secret long hath grown,
    And much she fears her parents' ire;
    She knows her father sets his face
    Against her lover's impious race,
    But still, her troth is plighted now.
    "Or him or Death," thus ran her vow.

CANTO THE SECOND.

    Zuleika's beauty from her birth
    Had been such as might well entice
    The saints above to visit Earth
    From Mahommed's gay Paradise;
    Her raven tresses shamed the night,
    Her step so proud and yet so light,
    'Twould seem as though she trod the air,
    Like Peri; nor was she less less fair.

    An eye that mocked the wild gazelle,
    A voice, although untrained by art,
    Sweet as a strain of Israfel,
    The strings of whose melodious heart
    A lyre are, with tones so sweet
    That angels listen at his feet,
    And the stars sink to the ground
    When those living chords resound.

    That cheek that paled the rose in hue
    Grows pallid, and her bosom heaves;
    Those lips, like rosebuds in the dew
    Enclosing pearls within their leaves,
    Are trembling, and her fairy form,
    Like lily bending to the storm,
    Quivers as an aspen grove,
    With sore misgivings of her love.

    The Caliph was a man of might;
    Zuleika was his only child,
    He scarce could bear her from his sight,
    Nor was he of a temper mild;
    And woe to him, the caitiff Giaour
    Who fell in dread El Amin's power.
    Zuleika sighs, what fears appal
    Her soul, lest this should him befall.

    The maiden slumbered scarce that night,
    Or she slumbered but to dream,
    Such dreams as bravest souls affright;
    Then waking with a start or scream,
    She soon forsook her fitful sleep,
    O'er Selim's likely fate to weep,
    Till the morning star's dim ray
    Now heralds the approach of day.

    The morning shed a ghastly light,
    Appearing to Zuleika's eye
    Full ominous. The clouds in sight
    Like streaks of blood across the sky,
    While gazing on the distance drear,
    Hark! what footsteps greet her ear?
    She spies afar at fullest speed
    Her lover on his Arab steed.

CANTO THE THIRD.

    One bound, and he is by her side;
    She greets him with a sorrowing eye.
    "What ails thee now, my love, my bride,
    And wherefore dost thou deeply sigh?
    There is a shade upon thy brow
    That I have never seen till now.
    Shake off these moods, dispel all fear.
    Is't not enough that I am here?"

    Zuleika heaved a heavy sigh.
    "Oh, Selim, if thou still art mine,
    Take me, and this instant fly
    Unto thy home across the brine;
    For if there's danger hovering nigh
    With thee, and not alone, I'd die.
    Set off at once, nor more delay;
    See how yon orb leads on the day."

    "Nay, loved one, but I have a vow.
    Seest thou yon peak where clouds do lower;
    That mountain doth contain, I trow,
    A talisman of mighty power
    Within its heart, and I have sworn
    To seize it ere to-morrow's dawn.
    When at thy feet the gem I lay,
    Then, but not erst, our wedding day.

    "This is the vow I must fulfil,
    And ere we fly across the main
    The talisman, come good or ill,
    Is thine. I've sworn it thee to gain.
    It gives eternal life and youth,
    Annulling time's remorseless tooth.
    The mountain opens once a day;
    'Tis guarded by a Genii grey."

    "Thou shalt not run this risk for me,"
    Zuleika cried. But Selim's brow
    Grew darker. "Never maid," quoth he,
    "Shall counsel me to break my vow.
    Know'st thou not a warrior's word
    Is sacred ever as his sword?
    An thou wouldst be a chieftain's bride,
    Cease me for my vow to chide."

    Then round his neck her arms she flings.
    "Oh, Selim, hear me once and stay.
    Azrael flaps his dusky wings,
    Al Hassan smiles and points the way."
    These words in boding tones she saith--
    "Thou ridest on to certain death.
    Last night I dreamed, my chieftain free,
    That Eblis ope'd its jaws for thee."

    Then with a smile he sought to lure
    Her fancies from their dark abode.
    "Thy maiden fears to but conjure
    These phantoms that the mind corrode."
    Then added, whilst his brows he bent,
    "Unworthy were I my descent,
    Could I be scared from this my theme
    By warning through a word or dream.

    "With thee I through the world would rove;
    But ere I seek to make thee mine,
    I'd prove me worthy of thy love,
    For I am of a Gheber line.
    The chieftain of a race whose breath
    Flows freer in the face of Death;
    No coward fear can e'er entwine
    Its coils around a heart like mine.

    "Think'st thou a warrior bred in strife
    And nurtured at the breast of woe
    Could bide a tame voluptuous life,
    Or stand in dread of mortal foe?
    I tell thee, girl, I live to brave
    The hairbreadth chances of the grave;
    Full weary were my life to me,
    Were danger not a luxury.

    "I carve my fate with my right arm,
    My life I dedicate to thee,
    I'll guard thee 'gainst the world from harm,
    And hold thee like a warrior free,
    Though Eblis' self should seek to wrest
    Thee from this true and loving breast.
    The sun is high; cease to repine.
    Farewell. The charm ere eve is thine."

CANTO THE FOURTH.

    He on the pommel lays his hand,
    And lightly leaps into his seat;
    His steed impatiently the sand
    Is pawing with his eager feet.
    Now forward, and away! away!
    Fast onward speeds that charger gay;
    Fleet as the wind is Selim's flight
    To reach the goal ere fall of night.

    His charger's mettle's at the test,
    For until the setting sun
    Gilds yonder slope he must not rest;
    His and his master's will are one.
    The journey will brook no delay
    To stop for water on the way,
    So onward fly at fullest speed
    The rider and his barb Djerid.

    Still onward flies the goaded steed;
    Full half the day is sped and gone.
    In foam and sweat the bold Djerid
    Still towards the mountain's base rides on.
    Now with a crash the mountain's side
    Is rent in twain. A cavern wide
    Displays to view a jewelled hall;
    'Tis guarded by a Genii tall.

    Arrived now at the mountain's base,
    One hour ere the set of sun,
    The cavern yawns before his face,
    And soon the charger's course is run.
    A voice of thunder from the cave,
    That shakes the mountain, utters, "Slave,
    Forbear this sacred soil to tread,
    Thy death be else on thine own head."

    But Selim draws from out his vest
    A bough, plucked from some distant shore--
    A magic bough, compelling rest
    On those whom he should wave it o'er.
    He waves it, and the Genii sleeps;
    No guardian now the threshold keeps.
    He enters; views the jewel bright
    Suspended from the cavern's height,

    One wrench, 'tis his, that jewel bright;
    That talisman, that oft of yore
    Sages have searched for day and night,
    And burned their midnight oil for.
    Caressing now his brave Djerid,
    Still mounted, yet spurs on his steed.
    Now, as the sun sinks 'neath the main,
    The cavern closes once again.

    But now the clouds eclipse the sky,
    The air grows sultry, and the wind
    Is lulled, yet on Djerid doth fly;
    The mountain is left far behind.
    "Zuleika! Oh, my love, my bride.
    Who now shall tear thee from my side?
    If not to-night, to-morrow's morn
    Shall see this gem thy brow adorn."

    The lowering sky grew black as night,
    And vivid flashes rent the air,
    No human dwelling lay in sight--
    For miles and miles the plain seemed bare.
    An awful stillness reigned around,
    A horse's hoofs made all the sound,
    And even Selim 'gan to fear
    Some unknown danger hovering near.

    And still more sultry grew the air,
    And peal on peal of thunder rolled,
    No wild beast ventured from his lair;
    Yet onward sped that courser bold--
    O'er crags, through marshes, bush or briar,
    He trampling tore with feet of fire,
    When sudden, without shriek or yell,
    The horse was struck, the rider fell.

CANTO THE FIFTH.

    A lightning flash hath cleft a rock,
    And formed a chasm in the stone.
    Within the cleft, with mighty shock,
    Selim from off his steed is thrown.
    His limbs are jambed between its walls;
    In vain for aid he loudly calls.
    No earthly power now can save
    The victim from his living grave.

    In vain he puts forth all his strength
    To free him from the horrid cleft;
    Those limbs so free are bound at length,
    For of all power he's bereft.
    Eternal life is in his hand
    To live on thus dread Fate's command,
    His doom is sealed, he cannot die,
    But lingers through eternity.

    Zuleika waits the coming morn
    With heaving breast and watchful eye.
    She scans the plain at early dawn
    But nought of her lover can descry.
    No tidings through the livelong day
    No footsteps tread that haunted way;
    Day after day, yet no return;
    His fate she now herself will learn.

    Then mounting at the break of day
    Her milk-white palfrey, leaves her home
    Behind her, and away! away!
    Upon her lover's tracks to roam.
    The noontide sun's fierce glowing ray
    Checks not her palfrey's onward way;
    She goads him on, nor slacks his speed
    Till pants for thirst her jaded steed.

    No water near his thirst to slake
    Beneath that glowing sultry sky.
    Her maiden fears now 'gin to wake,
    as were some threatening danger nigh.
    Her palfrey rears and ere a groan
    Escapes her, a stout arm is thrown
    Around her. As she calls aloud
    The Genii stands half-fiend, half-cloud.

    Then whisking her high up in air,
    The fiend in voice of thunder cried,
    "Behold thy lover in his lair;
    Thou'st torn for ever from his side.
    Nought can avert his destiny,
    For ever through eternity
    Within yon cleft he must abide.
    I claim thee now to be my bride."

    "Oh, Allah!" cried she, "hear my prayer:
    Help me this Genii to defy.
    If Selim's bride I may be ne'er,
    Take back my soul and let me die!"
    Her prayer is heard; her gentle soul
    Now wanders towards a higher goal,
    And in those realms of endless light
    The angels greet a sister sprite.

    Then Selim, gazing high in air,
    Beholds his loved one, hears her pray.
    He cries aloud in wild despair,
    The Genii clasps a thing of clay;
    Relaxing then his giant force,
    To Earth he hurls her lily corse.
    Now lie for ever side by side
    Th' undying chief and his dead bride.

    Zuleika's palfrey wanders home,
    Alas! without its gentle freight.
    El Amin hath set out to roam
    For tidings of his daughter's fate.
    Ne'er more to see her was his lot;
    The Genii guards that haunted spot,
    And close where his Zuleika lay,
    The chieftain lingers to this day.

       *       *       *       *       *

Scarce had the last word of the song died in the echo, than unbounded
applause once more shook the old panelled walls of the "Headless Lady."
After which Mr. Oldstone, rising and seizing the young poet by the hand,
poured forth so warm an eulogium on his poetical talent as to make that
young gentleman blush up to the roots of his hair.

The laurel crown was even hinted at again. This, however, Mr. Parnassus
modestly but firmly refused, saying that he could not sit crowned in the
midst of such a talented assembly merely because his weak endeavours to
entertain the company were given out in rhyme instead of in prose;
besides which, he added, that he had merely paid the forfeit agreed upon
for losing at chess, and that he was entitled to no thanks or marks of
honour for merely discharging his debt.

The laurel tree outside was therefore suffered to continue its growth
until some future occasion, and after various comments on our friend
Parnassus' poem, and much pleasant conversation, the company broke up
for the night, and each lighting his candle, retired to his own
chamber.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER VI.

A TALE OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION.--THE BARBER'S STORY.

The following morning broke fine but frosty, and the members of the club
being up sufficiently early for that time of the year, they all agreed
to take a long stroll before breakfast in the adjacent wood. Indeed, the
members of our club lived so thoroughly in an atmosphere of punch and
tobacco-smoke that an outing every now and then was requisite in order
to air their brains.

They strolled out, accordingly, by twos and threes, passing over fields
glittering with hoar-frost, until they came to a stile, which having
crossed over, they found themselves immediately in a wood.

It was a fine old place--that same ancient piece of woodland, where huge
oaks and beeches were interspersed with the fir, pine and birch. The
fantastic roots that shot out from the gnarled trunks of the majestic
oaks, like giants' limbs writhing in mortal agony, were coated here and
there in broad irregular patches of dank moss and variously-tinted
lichen. Their distorted colossal branches, stripped of their leaves
and silvered at their extremities with the hoar-frost, seemed struggling
to catch the first beams of a winter sun, while the shadowy outline of
the misty purple mass of distant trees brought out in bolder relief and
more vigorous hue the foreground thickly strewed with richly-tinted
leaves of russet, scarlet and orange. The dank fungus, luxuriant in its
foul growth, emerged from the velvet moss as if to outvie in glow the
variegated richness of the dried leaves of the forest.

It was a scene to awaken the soul of a poet, to inspire a landscape
painter with increased love of his art; and as our two friends McGuilp
and Parnassus strolled arm-in-arm together through this region of
enchantment, leaving their footprints in the crisp frost, which they
traversed with the buoyant footsteps of youth, leaving the elder members
considerably in the rear, each felt himself drawn towards the other by a
bond of common sympathy. It is not necessary to record every expression
of enthusiasm that escaped the lips of our two friends, nor to follow
minutely the philosophic meditations of the more mature members of the
club who brought up the rear, as at every step the scene unfolded new
and fresh beauties to their view.

Let it suffice our reader that their morning's walk proved highly
beneficial to them all, for they returned with marvellous appetites to
the inn, where a sumptuous breakfast of eggs and bacon, coffee, hot
rolls, etc., had just been spread for them by the fair hands of our
Helen, who waited to greet them on the doorstep.

The usual merry bantering from each member of the club in turn
succeeded, as a matter of course, and was replied to on Helen's part by
a pretty rustic coyness or smart repartee. Our artist thought he had
never seen her look to such advantage as now, glowing in the full
morning light. He noticed, too, that she was more sprucely dressed than
usual. What could it mean? As he asked himself this question, the church
bells of the village began to chime. The mystery was out--it was Sunday,
and McGuilp's hopes of a sitting fell to the ground.

"How say you--Sunday again?" exclaimed Mr. Oldstone, as he sat down to
his hot coffee. "Dear me! how the week has passed away!" Then passing
his hand over his chin, he said, "I omitted to shave this morning. My
hand shook so, owing to the stiffness of my night-cap last night before
I went to roost. It will not do to appear at church with a chin like
Hamlet's 'fretful porcupine,' and as I cannot shave myself, I must
inquire if there be not someone skilled in the noble science of
barber-craft in the village. How say you, Helen, my girl, know you not
some knight of the razor, some nimble and expert mower, who will rid me
of this crop without finding it necessary to combine the art of the
leech at the same time?"

"Aye, sir," answered Helen; "there is young Master Suds, the village
barber, successor to Old Hackchin, whom folks say never was much
account. Young Suds is lately from France, where he has been improving
himself in his art. He has introduced into the village all sorts of new
modes for trimming the hair and wigs, with numerous other French
novelties. You would be sure to be pleased with him, sir."

"Humph!" muttered Mr. Oldstone, who was much too old-fashioned an
English gentleman to be over partial to our friends across the channel.
"I don't want my head frizzled, thank you, but a firm, steady, English
hand to shave me--a man that is not above his business, and who will not
bore me to death with his gossip."

"Oh, as to that, sir," replied Helen, "it is part of a barber's
profession. Many folks think it a recommendation. I am sure our
villagers are delighted with his store of news."

"No doubt, no doubt," said Oldstone, testily. "He had better cut it
short, though, with me. However, send for this young blade, and tell him
I wish to see a sample of his art. I shall be ready for him directly
after breakfast."

And off tripped our landlord's pretty daughter in obedience to the
antiquary's orders.

"'Pon my life! Crucible, this bacon is delicious," said he, helping
himself afresh. "What say you, Blackdeed?"

Both gentlemen acquiesced, as did also the other members in turn.

"And the eggs divine," said Dr. Bleedem, bolting one at a mouthful.

"Excellent," joined in McGuilp and Parnassus, filling their plates.

The meal passed off pleasantly, and the last member at table had
scarcely wiped his mouth with his napkin when Master Suds was announced.

"Here, Helen, my dear," said Oldstone, "you may clear away now, and then
you may call in your gallant. I am sure you will excuse me, gentlemen,
for making you spectators to my operation?"

"Certainly," answered the club all round.

"There, that will do, Helen; now call him in."

Helen disappeared with the breakfast things, when a timid knock at the
door was heard.

"Come in," roared sundry voices at once, and Master Suds appeared upon
the scene, with his shaving tackle in a bag, and having his hair
frizzled up in a caricature of the latest French fashion.

"Bong jour, Mounseers," he began, with a flourish.

"Don't mounseer me, you young whipper-snapper," said the antiquary; "but
learn to speak the king's English when Englishmen honour you with their
custom."

"Pardong, mounseer--that is, I mean, I beg pardon, gentlemen; but habit,
gentlemen--habit, you know--is rather difficult to get rid of, and when
one has just come from foreign parts, like myself, one is apt to----"

"Cut it short, young shaver," said Oldstone, "and bend you to your task.
Are your razors sharp?"

"Mais oui, mounseer--that is----"

"If I catch you mounseering me again, I'll make that French pate of
thine and this English fist acquainted, so mind," said the insulted
antiquary.

This terrible threat imposed temporary silence on our knight of the
lather, who soaped and sudded away for a time without a word.

During this pause the spectators of the operation, who were seated or
standing about the room, conversed together in groups in an undertone.
Mr. Blackdeed and Mr. Crucible appeared to be particularly engrossed in
conversation, but the tone they spoke in was inaudible to the ordinary
listener. Not so, however, to Mr. Oldstone, whose ears were unusually
sharp, and rendered more so on the present occasion from the position of
forced quiet that he was obliged to maintain under the barber's hands.
To judge by the tragedian's action, a looker-on might have supposed him
quoting from one of his own melodramas, and imagined him to say, "Fly
with me, dearest; leave for ever the roof of a tyrant father, and take
shelter in the heart of one who is ready to lay down his life for thy
sake." While Mr. Crucible might have been supposed to be rehearsing the
lady's part, and to say, "Oh! tempt me not, Alonso; you know him not. I
dare not fly with thee."

The ears of Mr. Oldstone, however, interpreted the gesticulations in a
very different manner. Nothing could be more plain to the ears of this
worthy than these words from the tragedian. "The political state of
France will be a great interruption to all kinds of business." He could
hardly believe his ears, or that anyone could dare to use such
treasonable words within the sacred precincts of the club, so he
listened again, and this time caught a few disconnected words in Mr.
Crucible's tone of voice, such as 'stocks,' 'bonds,' 'premiums,'
'interest,' and the like.

Suddenly the whilom president of the grand saturnalia of the Wonder Club
was observed to start violently.

"Why, you rascal, you've cut me!" he cried to the barber.

"Pardong Mounseer, mais ce n'etait pas ma faute," said the confused
barber.

"What! French again, you monkey, to my face! Would you add insult to
injury?" said the incensed antiquary.

But calming down at length, said, "Well, well, lad, I acquit you this
time, for I verily believe that those two gentlemen in the corner there
(pointing to Messrs. Blackdeed and Crucible) are more to blame than
yourself for startling me out of my self-possession by the tenor of
their conversation.

"Mr. Blackdeed, and you too, Mr. Crucible, you are both perfectly aware
that such conversation is not to be tolerated in the club. I am
surprised and grieved to be obliged to remind two such old members of
our society of their duty, and in order to put a check upon such
lamentable want of discipline, I condemn you Mr. Blackdeed to recite one
of your own tragedies at full length, and you Mr. Crucible to be ready
with a story when next called upon."

Both of the gentlemen addressed looked abashed, and muttered something
in the shape of an apology. Having conscientiously discharged his duty,
Mr. Oldstone re-settled himself on his chair, and the operation
proceeded.

Master Suds was the first to endeavour to restore equanimity.

"A fine day, sir," he said, "for this time of the year."

"Humph!" grunted the antiquary, who was soaped up to the eyes, and was
forced to keep his mouth shut to avoid having the lather rubbed down his
throat.

"Yes, sir," continued the barber, "as you say, sir, it _be_ fine weather
sure_ly_, but it be still finer t'other side of the channel, _à Paris_;
that is to say, where I have been staying for the last six months. Fine
city Paris, sir, very. _Mon Dieu_, what streets! what shops! What a
treat it be of a morning to rise early and take a promenade on the
Bullyvards!"

"On the what?" inquired his customer.

"On the Bullyvards. Ah! I see, sir, you do not understand what that
means. Well that is the name the French give to those streets as has
trees a running alongside of 'em. Ah! sir, fine people the French, in
their way--understand more of barber-craft than they do in this country.
Why, an English barber who has never been out of his own country is
quite an ignoramus alongside a French barber. But I could teach a trick
or two to some of my countrymen in the line that would astonish them,
having been over there long enough to get into the manners and customs
of the natives. But I say, sir, what a nation they be for quarrelling
amongst themselves, to be sure! There's this here revolution still going
on. What it will all end in goodness only knows. What do _you_ say,
sir?"

"I don't know, and I don't care," replied Mr. Oldstone, irritably. "They
may all go to----"

A fresh rub of the lather over his mouth prevented the antiquary from
finishing his sentence. The pertinacious barber was not to be put down.

"Ah, sir," he continued, "I could tell you some mighty strange tales
about that same revolution."

"Oh, indeed!" broke in Mr. Hardcase. "The members of this club are fond
of hearing tales, but they don't relish much anything connected with
politics. In fact the tales permitted within these walls are almost
entirely of the supernatural order."

"The supernatural!" ejaculated the barber. "Parbleu! is that still
believed in this country? I promise you our French friends don't believe
in that, or anything else, for aught I know."

"I know they don't, the infidel puppies," growled the antiquary; "but we
do. Do we not, gentlemen?"

"Ay, indeed!" answered the members of the club with one accord.

"Do you indeed, gentlemen!" exclaimed the astonished barber. "Well, it
ain't often that one finds gentlemen of your standing that will own so
much, but as you gentlemen all declare you believe in such things, I
don't mind telling you that I myself am also a believer."

"Ah!" said Mr. Oldstone, beginning to be interested.

"Yes, sir, I am indeed," replied the barber.

"Come, now," said Mr. Crucible, "if you could tell us of some experience
of yours that bordered on the supernatural, I'd answer for Mr.
Oldstone's listening to you."

By this time the antiquary was released from the clutches of the barber,
and Mr. Hardcase, wishing to profit by the occasion, took his place on
the chair, and a second edition of the lathering began.

"Well," said Oldstone, feeling himself considerably more comfortable,
and throwing himself back complacently in an easy-chair, "you
say--ahem!--that you--you, at least I have been given to understand that
you have, at some period of your life, had some experience--ahem!--of
the supernatural."

"There, I knew he was burning to hear a story," cried all the members at
once, quizzingly.

"Well, Mounseer Suds, out with it, let's hear."

Thus encouraged, the barber put on a grave and important look, and began
his story in these words.

Well then, gentlemen, since you deign to encourage me, I must next
trespass on your patience whilst I enter upon some particulars about my
family. I was born in this village some five-and-twenty years back, and
at a very early age the genius of the barber began to develop itself in
me. My father was a barber before me, and so was my grandfather and
great-grandfather, too, as I have heard my father say. In fact, from
time immemorial the Suds have been barbers. Descended from a long line
of this honourable profession, and literally reared in lather, having my
youthful imagination fired by the tales of my father and grandfather of
the great people they had shaved in their day, what wonder that, at a
precocious age, I should yearn to wield the weapon of my ancestors, and
even aspire to be more eminent in the line than any of my predecessors?
It was the height of my father's ambition--who was great in his way, and
added to the ordinary routine of business the higher branches of the
art, such as bleeding, tooth drawing, quack salving, and the like--that
I, his only son, should step into his shoes, and hand down the name of
"Suds" in all its unblemished purity.

"Joe," he would say to me, "when I am gone to my long account, who will
there be to support your poor mother unless you fix upon some honest
trade for a livelihood?"

"And what trade should I fix upon, if not yours, father?" I would reply.

"Well, Joe, my boy," he would say, "if you would be a true barber, and
uphold the honour of the family, recollect that no excellence is
achieved without constant practice. The primary rules of barber-craft
are simple. Keep your razors sharp and free from rust, your water
boiling; spare not the lather, and rub it well in before you begin to
shave; dip the razor in the boiling water, and work with a steady
hand."

I promised him that I would abide by his instructions, and although up
to a certain age I was not permitted to handle a razor, I was,
nevertheless, always in my father's shop, and watched with admiring eyes
the masterly way in which my progenitor finished off his customers. In
the case of a tooth having to be drawn, or a vein opened, I was never
missing, and great was my pride should my father call upon me now and
then to render him some trifling assistance. I might have been about
seven years old when I made my first essay.

It was about Christmas time, and my father had just killed a pig, which
he had left hung up by the legs in the yard. Being left alone for a few
minutes, a bright idea struck me. I would try my "'prentice han'" on the
carcase of the porker. So, locking all the doors so as not to be
interrupted, I mixed up a lather and, with one of my father's
well-sharpened razors, I commenced operations. Whilst thus busily
employed, I was attracted by the sound of smothered laughter, and
looking up at the window of our next-door neighbour's house, which
looked into our yard, I beheld some dozen of the neighbours, who had
been called in to witness my performance. I thought they would have died
with laughter. However, nothing daunted, I proceeded diligently with my
task, until my father, rattling at the door, demanded instant
admittance. I was forced to admit him, and when he saw what I had been
about, he quickly snatched the razor from my hand, and calling me "a
dirty young dog," administered to me a slight kick behind, although I
thought at the time, by the expression on his face, and likewise by that
on my mother's, that my parents felt inwardly proud of their son.

An interval of two years now elapsed before I again put hand to razor. I
remember that at this time I was nine years old, and it was when I was
at this tender age that my poor father caught a fever and died.

As you may suppose, gentlemen, it was a terrible blow to my poor widowed
mother, who, besides the grief she naturally felt for the loss of an
affectionate husband, found herself now alone in the world with a
growing lad to support as well as herself by the scanty proceeds of the
business.

It was some little time before I could realise the fact that my father
was actually dead. When my mother first brought me the startling news I
heard it in a sort of stupor, resembling insensibility, out of which I
did not awake until the undertaker arrived with the coffin, when the
whole extent of our calamity seemed to dawn upon me for the first time,
and I fairly howled for grief. Whilst thus indulging my sorrow, a few
neighbours dropped in to see my father laid out in his coffin before he
was nailed down. I heard my mother make something like an apology for
showing her husband's body before it had been shaved. I stopped short in
my sobbing and mused awhile. It was then the custom to shave a corpse
before consigning it to its last home. Who was to perform this duty?

Here the instinct of the barber came over me. Not a moment was to be
lost if I really intended to put my plan into practice. Yes, I myself
would shave my father's corpse, and no other. Accordingly, as my mother
was showing out the neighbours and listening to their well meant
condolences on the threshold, I quickly locked myself into the room with
the corpse, having previously procured the apparatus necessary for the
operation. I bore in my mind my father's instructions, "Keep your razor
sharp, and free from rust; let the water be boiling, and don't spare the
lather, but rub it well in before you begin." I now proceeded to put my
father's advice into practice; so, lathering well the face of the
corpse, and rubbing the suds well in, I proceeded to wield the razor
with a dexterity at first that surprised me with my own performance and
encouraged me to attempt something of that "nonchalance" of style that I
had observed my father adopt whilst shaving his customers, but which is
not looked upon as quite safe until one has undergone considerable
practice.

Now, this was only my second attempt; still, I was so elated at having
gone through the shaving of both cheeks as well as the throat, without a
single cut, that I already deemed myself a proficient in the art, and
affected that air of ease and careless grace I have just alluded to
whilst I attempted the scraping of the upper lip, when, oh, horror! the
razor gave an untimely slip, and sliced my father's nose off! I dropped
the razor in my fright, and I really wonder I did not go off in a fit
on the spot, such was the thrill of terror that seized me as I gazed on
the ghastly hideousness of my father's corpse as it lay noseless in its
coffin. I staggered and almost fell to the ground, but mustering all my
courage, I picked up the nose and clapped it on in its place. I remember
that in my eagerness and hurry I stuck it on the wrong way, with the
nostrils upwards, which gave an appearance at once fearful and ludicrous
to its ghastly features. It rolled off, however, immediately, and I
hastened to rectify my mistake, and after much care and adroitness,
succeeded in poising the feature nicely in the centre of the face, in
the hopes that it would adhere of its own accord to the spot, and
proceeded with the operation; but, alas, no sooner had I begun to meddle
with the upper lip, than off rolled the nose again, so I just let it be
this time until I had completed the operation.

Having, with the exception of this trifling accident, shaved the corpse
of my father to a nicety, I wiped off the lather, replaced the nose, and
quitted the room, carrying back my shaving tackle to the shop.

Shortly afterwards my mother entered the room, and was surprised at
finding the corpse already shaved. She had intended shaving it herself.
I was silent on the subject, and she inquired no further into the
matter, being too absorbed with her grief.

Presently the undertaker returned to nail up the coffin, and my mother
hastened to give my father one last parting kiss before he was nailed up
for ever. Suddenly I heard a shriek, and rushing into the room, found
my mother in hysterics. The cause was obvious. In approaching her lips
to those of her defunct spouse, the nose had unexpectedly rolled off,
causing a shock similar to that I experienced myself when I so
unskilfully amputated my father's nasal protuberance. When my mother
came to, I made a clean breast of my awkwardness, for which I received a
severe scolding, accompanied by sundry boxes on the ear. At length the
coffin was nailed up, and I followed it with my mother to the grave, but
for nights afterwards, my noseless father haunted me in my dreams,
carrying a basin of suds in one hand, and holding his nose between
finger and thumb with the other, as if to reproach me with my
awkwardness.

When I related these dreams to my mother, she became uneasy in her mind,
and declared that all through my awkwardness my father was unable to
find rest in the tomb. She was a great believer in dreams, visions,
omens, prophecies, and the like, and said that the dream boded no good.
Being a mere child then, I became infected with her fears, though as I
grew up I began to reason with myself that a dream of that sort might
very well be accounted for by the excited state of my brain at the time
and tendency of my waking thoughts, without jumping at once at the
conclusion that there was anything supernatural in it.

For some time after my father's death I used to pester my mother with
many of those questions that children are so fond of asking, and
mothers find so difficult to answer--viz., concerning Heaven, and a
future state after death. She used to tell me that Heaven was a place
for all good people, far, far away, high up above the stars, where good
folks lived on for ever, and never grew old, and never to die any more;
that they were very happy, and knew no more pain or sorrow, but became
as the angels, and had wings and sang praises to God all day long on a
cloud. Moreover, that it was very light and bright there, that all was
endless sunshine, and the angels were dressed in shining garments, etc.

Still, I was anxious to know more about Heaven; how long it took to get
there--being so far off; whether father wouldn't get tired flying all
that distance, and if so, where he would stop to rest on the road; what
sort of amusements there were in Heaven, and finally whether there was
any shaving there. This last question was a puzzler. I was not to be put
off by mother telling me that angels didn't require shaving, for then I
argued that if father had gone to Heaven, he would be out of employment,
and consequently miserable and not happy, for I knew what pleasure my
father took in his business. Now if my father could not be happy without
employment, the only employment he cared about being shaving, and if in
Heaven that employment were not permitted or encouraged, it followed
that my father could not be in Heaven, for who ever heard of a soul in
Heaven and not happy?

My next question was whether there were any shaving in the other place.
This was equally difficult to answer, for if my mother should admit that
there was, then I should have argued that my father must be there, which
would not have been a consoling idea, and if not, where should he be,
since he could not be in either of these places? My mother was fain to
confess that she did not know much about it, but said she would ask the
minister. Whether she did or not, I never ascertained. I began to
reflect for myself. The apostles were good men, as I had been given to
understand, and good men always went to Heaven. Yet from their effigies
upon the old stained-glass windows of the village church, they were all
represented with long beards. Therefore barber-craft could not be
encouraged in Heaven. Nothing could be more conclusive than this. My
doubts were at rest for ever, but I felt less happy than before I began
to argue on these matters.

Ever since my father's death the whole weight of the business fell upon
my mother. Even in my father's lifetime she had so profited by his
lessons as to be able to lend a helping hand occasionally when the
customers were numerous and was thought to possess no inconsiderable
skill in the art, but now that my father was no more, she had to put her
shoulder to the wheel for her very bread. As for myself, it was long
before our villagers could be induced to place any confidence in my
shaving, the report of my father's unlucky amputation having spread like
wildfire through the neighbourhood.

At length a strange gentleman passed through the village, and calling at
our shop, demanded to be shaved. My mother not being in at the time, I
offered my services, which were accepted, and acquitted myself to the
entire satisfaction of my customer. The gentleman chancing to mention to
someone that he had been shaved by a mere boy, and better than he had
ever been shaved in his life, my fame began to spread in the village,
and from that day we were in no want of customers.

Business went on swimmingly until I was twelve years old, when I had the
misfortune to lose my poor mother. I was now quite alone in the world,
so in order to instruct myself more fully in the higher branches of the
art, such as wig making, hair-cutting, etc., I offered myself as
apprentice under the late Mr. Hackchin, under whose tuition in the wig
line I vastly improved, although even from the beginning my shaving was
universally preferred to his. Lor, sirs! his razors were never sharp,
his water always lukewarm, and his hand shook as with the palsy. The
fact was, he was getting old, was my poor employer, and ought, in my
opinion, to have given up business long before he did, when he might
have retired from the field with all due honours, and handed down his
name unstained to posterity.

Well, gentlemen, not to wear out your patience, I will at once proceed
to the very heart of my story--plunge into the very thick of the lather,
as my poor father used to say--being about the time of my going abroad,
and the reason of it. It was now some time since I had begun to cast
sheep's eyes on the pretty Sally Snip, daughter of Simon Snip, the
village tailor. We met by stealth, took long walks together of a Sunday
in the green lane, danced together on the green on holidays, exchanged
tokens, breathed vows of eternal fidelity, and all the rest of it. Our
interviews were detected at length by Sally's parents, who looked on our
attachment with no favourable eyes. Old Snip was ambitious, and designed
quite another match for his daughter than a penniless young barber like
myself, and gave me plainly to understand that if I did not _sheer_ off
he would _baste_ my broadcloth for me. I was in a rage, but smothered it
for prudence sake, yet didn't I wish in that moment that I had the
shaving of him--wouldn't I have scraped him, that's all! Well, words
grew high; I protested that my intentions were strictly honourable,
etc., etc., but all to no purpose; the obstinate old parent wouldn't see
what was for his daughter's good, and I left him very much disgusted. A
few stolen interviews were attempted after this, but were all
frustrated, and I soon saw we were not destined for one another, so we
met for the last time, wept, embraced, and vowed still to love each
other to eternity.

Now, there is no knowing but I might still have sought to renew my
interviews, had not an extraordinary circumstance occurred to alter my
determination. On the very night after our parting I was tossing
restlessly on my bed, between sleeping and waking, when all of a
sudden--whether it was a dream, I know not, but I fancy that I was
awake--all at once there stood by my bedside the spirit of my father in
the habiliments of the grave, unblemished in whiteness as the suds he
used in his lifetime, and, approaching me solemnly, said,

"My son, all that has happened is for the best. Stick to thy trade, and
rival the most illustrious of thy ancestors, to which end thou must
visit Paris. I will guide thy steps. Practise incessantly. We shall meet
again."

With these words the vision vanished, and I felt myself bathed in a cold
sweat.

I slept no more that night, but rose early the following morning. My
determination was fixed, for a parent's command from the other side of
the tomb was not to be combated, so I scraped together my slender
earnings, tied up my bundle, took leave of my employer, and paid my
passage over to Paris.

Soon after my departure Sally Snip became the wife of Daniel Nimble, an
aspiring apprentice of old Simon's. This was my first love, and, like
most first loves, ended miserably. Few men there are I wot who can boast
of having loved but once, and of having lived uncrossed in that love to
the end of the chapter. But I digress.

No sooner arrived in Paris than I began searching out the names and
addresses of the most celebrated men in the hair line of the day with a
view of offering my services as assistant. The day after my arrival I
passed a large and handsome shop, evidently a first-rate business, with
a large printed card in the window. Now, although at that time I had not
the remotest knowledge of the French language, and consequently could
not possibly understand what was written on the card, yet an
indescribable I-don't-know-what, an inexplicable "_je-ne-sais-quoi_"
(perchance a spiritual dig in the ribs from my father), induced me to
interpret the words, "_A boy wanted_." I was as certain as I am of my
own existence that the proprietor was in want of an assistant and that
my services would be accepted, so I entered the shop, addressed the
proprietor in English, which, it is needless to say, was perfectly
unintelligible to him. However, by expressive signs, I told him I was an
adept, and that he couldn't do better than engage me. He smiled, the
bargain was struck, and from that day I commenced my career in a foreign
land.

My employer was one Pierre le Chauve, a hair-dresser who had an
extensive business in the Rue St. Honorè, and who was especially
renowned for the neatness and elegance of his wigs. He also cut hair,
manufactured fancy soaps, hair oil, hair dye, perfumery, and the like.
He had one daughter, Mademoiselle Pauline, of some eighteen summers, as
neat a little grisette as ever trod the Champs Elysées or the Bois de
Boulogne on Sundays, and who presided at the counter and sold articles
of perfumery to the Parisian exquisites, with whom she chatted with the
most charming ease and grace and bewitching naïveté.

Pauline was the thorough type of a French girl. Eyes of dark hazel, set
wide apart in her head, nez retrousee, rather wide mouth and exceptional
teeth, small hand and foot, jimp waist, and a countenance capable of
every possible shade of expression, while her voice, by nature pitched
in a high key, rose to shrillest treble when under any excitement.

Besides myself, there was another assistant, one Jacques Millefleurs, a
conceited French puppy, who fancied himself irresistible, and used to
persecute his employer's daughter with the most marked attentions
whenever her father's back was turned, and which she, it must be
confessed, did not appear to be entirely indifferent to, although, at
the same time, she gave him plainly to understand that she intended to
flirt with whomever she liked without asking _his_ permission, and that
he had no right whatever to monopolise her. Jacques was of an
exceedingly jealous temper, and could ill brook this tone from the
object of his affections; this she knew well, and often took a malicious
delight in provoking him by putting on her best airs and graces and
being doubly fascinating whenever a handsome customer came to the shop.
It was then that Jacques would grow pale, and dart vicious side glances
from the corners of his eyes; but Pauline took no notice of him
whatever, but flirted more and more, as if to aggravate him. After the
customer had departed they would have a lovers' quarrel, and then they
would make it up again, and so on from day to day.

Now, all this could be of very little interest to me, even if I had
understood their conversation, for had I not my own secret grief? Was it
to be supposed that I could forget Sally in a day? No; whilst I in
silence counted and separated the hairs destined to be woven into the
scalp of a wig, or whilst shaving a customer or cutting his hair, my
soul was in the green lane with Sally, or behind her at church, or under
her window at night, watching for a momentary glimpse of her shadow on
the window blind. In fact, whatever happened to be my employment, Sally
was ever uppermost in my thoughts, and still continued to be so, even
some time after the sad news reached me that she had married Daniel
Nimble. This shock at first was terrific, but, gradually subsiding, I
resolved at length that, as she had so soon forgotten me, not to think
of her any more, which in time I succeeded in doing. From being moody
and silent, I now became more talkative, for I had begun to pick up a
few phrases in French.

Mademoiselle Pauline encouraged me in my progress, and was pleased to
take a great interest in me, much to the disgust of her admirer, Jacques
Millefleurs, who began to look upon me as a probable rival. I daily
improved in the French language under my fair tutor, and day by day she
gained upon me, for she certainly had the most winning manners. The more
I talked with her, the less I thought of Sally, till at last she
succeeded in completely supplanting her in my heart, and I found myself,
before I was well aware of it, head over ears in love with the
fascinating grisette.

Here was a to do. Murder will out. Love and a cough are two things one
can't hide, as the proverb says.

The odious Jacques _must_ discover my passion ere long, and a quarrel
will be inevitable. Not that I feared the likes of him, gentlemen. Don't
suppose it for a moment. Why, I'd take half a dozen or so of such
fellows one off and another on, and thrash the whole lot of them as easy
as a game of ninepins. Well, but to proceed, gentlemen. What I foresaw
soon happened. One day while taking my French lesson under Mademoiselle
Pauline, and we were chatting away merrily enough without taking any
notice of Jacques, who was arranging pots of bears' grease on the
shelves in the background, our heads drew very close together, and we
were looking very fondly into each other's eyes and whispering rather
low.

Now, I knew that there was no engagement between her and Jacques,
therefore I had every right to pay her just the same attention that he
did, and I intended to let him know it. Well, my head might have touched
hers, or my locks may have intermingled with hers as we pored over the
French grammar together. However this may have been, something or other
seems to have exasperated my rival, for I heard him mutter to himself
something like _Cochon d'un Anglais_. I was getting on in my French now
and understood the words, so turning round, I said,

"Did your remark refer to me, Monsieur Jacques?"

"_Oui à vous_," he said, furiously, now losing all command over himself,
and heedless of the consequences; "and I repeat my remark."

Here he repeated his obnoxious epithet with an invective against my
countrymen in general.

"Hold there!" I cried, for I began to feel my English blood boil in my
veins, and in the best French I could muster, said,

"Retract your words. I give you one chance to apologise, and if you
refuse----"

Before I could finish my rival's legs had formed a right angle, and I
received a _savât_ in the eye. Stung by the pain, and still more by the
insult, I felt the strength of our whole line of barbers rush into my
veins, and clenching my fist convulsively I let forth so terrible a blow
in the chest of my adversary as to make him measure his length upon the
floor, and cause the back of his head to resound against it like a
cocoanut. Miss Pauline screamed, but the next moment my rival had
bounced upright upon his feet, and seized a razor. Another scream from
Pauline as he was making towards me, razor in hand, but this time I took
up a chair and with it gave him such a blow over the knuckles as made
him drop the razor and yell in agony. I laid down the chair, thinking
that the fight was now over, but the Frenchman sprang on to me again
like a hungry tiger, and so unexpected was the movement that I nearly
lost my balance, but with great adroitness I managed to trip him up, and
he fell under me.

He now began to bite and to scratch, but I seized his hair and banged
his head against the ground several times. He then clutched me anew, and
we began rolling over and over on the floor, Pauline screaming all the
while, but extricating myself at length from his grasp, I bounded to my
feet, and before he had time to rise placed one foot upon his throat. At
this moment my employer attracted by his daughter's screams, entered.

"_Mille diables!_" he cried, fiercely, "_ques-ce-que ce tappage la? Ah!
ça, Monsieur Godam_," said he, turning full upon me, "_esce que vous
êtes entré chez moi pour ensegner le box à mes eléves?_"

Here Pauline broke in.

"No, I assure you, dear papa, it was not the Englishman's fault.
Millefleurs began the quarrel. I saw him kick the Englishman in the
eye."

"Ha! Monsieur Jacques, you did kick the Englishman in the eye?" inquired
my employer; "and what for did you kick the Englishman in the eye?"

"Because he used undue familiarity towards Mademoiselle," said Jacques,
doggedly.

Le Chauve glanced suspiciously first at me then at his daughter, but
Pauline, stung at Jacques' mean attempt at exposing me as well as
herself to her father's obloquy, rose in all the pride of injured
womanhood, as if to take the whole burden of defence upon herself, and
standing erect with compressed lips and white with passion, cried,

"It is false, 'tis a base lie! The Englishman never treated me otherwise
than with the greatest respect, nor have I ever received at his hands
any of those attentions that in my indulgence I have permitted from
yourself. Think not, however, Master Jacques, that this calumny will
serve your turn, or that I am blind to the paltry motives that prompted
it. Your absurd jealousy is seen through, and has met with its just
chastisement. What was it to you, I pray, even if the Englishman _had_
paid me attention? Must you be the only one to pay me attention? You
know very well that I have never granted you any right to monopolise me,
however your conceit may have deluded you. Beware, therefore, in future
how you attempt to calumniate either myself or this Englishman, for as
sure as you are born you will not succeed in your scheme, and know, once
for all, Monsieur Jacques Millefleurs, that for the future I wish all
those attentions that you have been pleased to lavish upon me so
profusely whenever my father's back was turned, to cease. Respect me as
your employer's daughter, for I vow never to be anything more to you."

She ceased; but during her harangue, Pauline's deportment was
majestic--it was sublime. No longer was she the little grisette with the
cock-nose and the wide mouth, but a tragedy queen pronouncing a
malediction. She appeared now at least half a head taller, so imposing
was her attitude. The roses and smile had deserted her countenance, and
were supplanted by a ghastly pallor, while from her dark eyes flashed a
withering scorn, under which Jacques appeared to quail like a whipped
hound, but which feeling his natural pride sought to overcome.

Rage, grief, jealousy, and confusion struggled in his breast for the
mastery, as he stood speechless, with clenched fists, teeth set, flushed
face, and straining eyeballs fixed upon the ground, to which the tears
would start spite of all his efforts to repress them. His hair
disordered and dirty, as well as his clothes, from his fall, he looked
altogether the very picture of maniacal despair.

"Ha! Jacques," said his employer, "is this true? What! have you dared to
raise your eyes to my daughter, and that, too, behind my back, without
my permission--_hein_?"

Jacques, overcome with shame and speechless, never lifted his eyes from
the ground, whilst the large tears, blinding him and overflowing, fell
heavily on the floor.

"_Prenez garde, Monsieur Jacques_," said Le Chauve, "for, _parbleu!_ if
I hear any more of these clandestine overtures with my daughter I'll
discharge you on the spot. And you, too, Ma'meselle Pauline, you, too,
were much to blame in not telling me at once of this boy's insolent
pretensions. But, tell me once more, who began this ridiculous quarrel?
Who gave the first blow?"

"Please, sir," said I, now speaking for the first time, "I was taking my
French lesson with your daughter, when Monsieur Jacques was pleased to
call me '_cochon_,' and abused my country. I demanded an apology, which
he refused, and before I was aware of it, kicked me in the eye. I gave
one straight blow with my fist, _comme ça_"--(here I imitated the blow
to show him how an Englishman could knock a Frenchman down)--"and he
fell full length upon the floor."

"Yes, it is true, papa," broke in Pauline; "the Englishman has spoken
the truth."

"_C'etait bien fait, c'etait bien fait_," said her father; "go on."

"Then," resumed I, "Millefleurs sprang again to his feet, and seized a
razor."

"Ha! he seized a razor? Is that so, Monsieur Millefleurs? Did you seize
a razor?"

Jacques was silent as before, while I proceeded, "I then seized a
chair."

"You seized a chair, _hébien_!"

"And I knocked the razor out of his hand. He fell to the ground with
pain, and yelled."

"_Encore, bien fait--après?_"

"He jumped up again, and pounced upon me like a tiger, and nearly
knocked me over, but I tripped him up in time, and he fell to the
ground, together with myself, and then we rolled over and over each
other on the floor, till I at length succeeded in extricating myself,
and placed my foot upon his neck, when you entered, sir."

"_C'est bien vraie_," burst in Pauline again; "the Englishman has given
an exact account of the quarrel."

"Ha! is that so?" asked Le Chauve. "_Hébien!_ Monsieur Jacques, you have
refused to apologise to the Englishman for insulting him and kicking him
in the eye. Now, I command you to apologise to him, or out of my shop
you shall go at once. Do you hear?"

"Non; _mille fois non_!" cried Jacques, stamping with rage, forgetful
alike of the respect due to his master and the presence of Pauline, "I
would sooner die first."

"Then prepare at once to leave my house. Take up your bundle and walk!"

The peremptory manner in which these words were said caused Jacques to
pause and weigh matters.

"If my employer actually does send me off," he probably said to himself,
"then adieu to Pauline for ever, but if I consent to apologise, I shall
remain here, and may in time succeed in cutting out the Englishman."

This was probably his mode of reasoning, for he was too good a
politician not to know where his interests lay, so changing his tone
entirely, and gulping down with difficulty something that was rising in
his throat, and which, if he had given expression to, would probably
have resembled an ingenious French oath, he replied with great apparent
calmness,

"Monsieur Le Chauve, you have always been a good master to me, and I
have always tried to prove myself worthy of your kindness, and I should
be sorry to leave you for a trifle, therefore I will obey you, and will
demand pardon of _mon cher confrere l'anglais_, for having in a moment
of ungovernable passion kicked him in the eye, and insulted him."

This was said in turning towards me, and in all humility.

"And you, Monsieur Suds, if you forgive him, offer him your hand."

I extended my hand towards my fellow assistant, which he took in his,
and I expressed sorrow for the part I had had in the quarrel, but I
noticed that the hand of Jacques Millefleurs was icy cold.

"_Allons mes enfants_," said Le Chauve, "now don't let me hear any more
of these silly quarrels, but go in peace."

We both set about our respective duties, but I knew enough of the
Frenchman's character to be sure that his apology did not come from his
heart, but had been forced out of him from motives of policy, and I was
not at all sure that this would be the last of such quarrels, but had no
doubt that he would vent his petty spite upon me on the very next
opportunity.

I had hardly re-settled myself, and proceeded with my wig, when a
stranger of dignified appearance entered and demanded to be shaved. I
had no difficulty in recognising in him a countryman. Glad of an
opportunity of speaking English again after so long, I answered him in
his own mother tongue.

"Want to be shaved, sir? Yes, sir."

"Ah, you are English!" he said.

"Yes, sir, one of the latest imported," said I. "Only arrived here a
month ago to perfect myself in the art of barber-craft amongst these
foreigners. Served under Mr. Hackchin in the village of D----, in
----shire, where I have learnt to shave, cut hair, make wigs, mix hair
grease, and all the rest of it, and as for tooth drawing, bleeding, and
quack salving, you won't find the likes of me in all the countryside. My
name is Suds, sir, at your service. Maybe you have heard tell of my
father or my grandfather. The Suds have been barbers from time
immemorial."

"Oh, indeed?" said the stranger. Then muttered to himself,
"Suds--Suds--I fancy I have heard the name before."

And I should just think he had, gentlemen. Why, my grandfather once
shaved His Majesty King George I., or George II., or Queen Anne, or one
of that lot, I forget which, as my father used to tell me.

Well, gentlemen, when I had got my countryman fairly lathered, and had
commenced operations, I noticed that he glanced half-quizzingly at my
eye, which was now black and swollen from the kick I had received from
my adversary.

"You seem to have a bad cold in your eye, Mr. Suds," he remarked, with
an ill-repressed smile.

"No, sir," I replied, "it is not exactly that."

"Not a cold!" exclaimed he, feigning astonishment. "Dear me! it's very
like one. Then if I might venture to guess, I should say you had been
in a fight, and got the worst of it."

"Well, not exactly, sir," said I; "not the worst of it; no, not the
worst of it. It is true I had a slight difference of opinion this
morning with a young man of the shop, a mere trifle--an affair of
jealousy, that's all, sir."

"And I presume that that neat little baggage in the corner of the shop
with the jimp waist and well starched cap was the fair cause of this
trifling jealousy--am I right?"

"Well, really, sir, your penetration is such that it serves not to deny
it," said I. "If you had only arrived five minutes earlier, you would
have caught me at it tooth and nail. Oh! it _was_ fine, sir. He caught
me a kick in the eye unawares--French fashion you know, sir. Englishmen
don't like that sort of game, it takes them by surprise; but you should
have seen how I floored him with a good English blow in the chest that
made him measure his length upon the ground. You should have heard what
a whack his head came against the floor. It sounded for all the world
like an empty cask. It will ache for him this next fortnight to come,
I'll warrant."

"Oh! then England _wasn't_ thrashed after all?" said he.

"Not a bit of it," said I, proudly.

"Well, you seem a smart lad," said he. "I don't mind giving you a job to
do every morning during my stay in Paris. Suppose you come every morning
to my hotel to shave me."

"With pleasure, sir," said I.

"Here is my address," said he, handing me a card.

I read the name Lord Goldborough, Hotel ----, Rue ----, No. 25 _au
premier_. I fell into a sort of stupor at the discovery that I had been
shaving a real live lord, without knowing it. So taken aback was I, that
I forgot to stuff his pockets with bears' grease, tooth powder, fancy
soaps, hair dye, tooth and nail brushes, etc.

Before I had well recovered, he was out of the shop. He had left an
English paper behind him by mistake, and a letter, the former of which I
perused, while the latter I placed in my pocket, to return to him on the
morrow at his hotel.

No sooner had my countryman left the shop than Pauline asked me if he
wasn't an Englishman.

"Yes," I replied, glad of an opportunity of making myself big in her
eyes and of inspiring my rival with awe and respect for me; "his name is
Lord Goldborough, _un grand milord_, who has known me many years, and
all my family. In fact," said I, "he is distantly connected with
us."--(I did not say on account of our both being descended from Adam).

I told them in the shop that he had engaged my services every morning at
his hotel to shave him, for old acquaintance sake, and finally that he
had called on me on purpose, under the excuse of being shaved, to lend
me that paper to read, where there was a long account of the great
political deeds of a celebrated English minister related to us both; in
fact, no less a man than the renowned William Pitt. There's no harm in
making yourself as big as you can when you are sure of not being found
out--eh, gentlemen?--and when you do come out with a lie, tell a good
'un whilst you're about it--that's my morality.

Pauline raised her eyebrows and looked at me archly, half incredulously.
Jacques, who had been sulkily combing out some bunches of hair for
wig-making behind the counter, looked up for a moment, his mouth wide
open with astonishment, then resumed his work.

I little knew at the time how dearly I should have to pay for a few idle
words. These are dangerous times to jest in, gentlemen, especially
t'other side of the water, and if you happen to have an enemy. I was
inexperienced in these matters then, but I have bought my experience
since, and dearly enough I had to pay for it.

On the following morning I hastened to keep my appointment with my noble
countryman. I found him very affable and condescending, and he was
pleased to compliment me on my skill in barber-craft. He talked to me
much about England and my family, of politics, of the French, etc., and
asked me how I liked foreign parts. I naturally felt flattered at the
interest he seemed to take in me, but I knew how to keep my place,
always styling him "my lord" and "your lordship." In fact, we got on
capitally together. When I returned to the shop I bragged of the
intimacy between my patron and myself, not always sticking literally to
the truth, but colouring my reception a little highly to excite envy
and respect in my rival and interest in Pauline.

After this I went regularly every day to his lordship, and came back
after every visit with an extravagantly coloured account of my noble
customer's bounty and friendship for me, as well as the unlimited share
of his confidence that I enjoyed. Pauline's smiles grew daily more
winning, and Jacques scowled more and more savagely from behind the
counter.

One morning, as I was preparing as usual to start for my noble patron's
hotel, an ugly-looking ruffian, dressed in the preposterous fashion of
the "incroyables," entered the shop, and strutting up to my employer,
who was hard at work on a new wig, said, "Citoyen, you harbour a
'_suspect_.'"

"Not I, my friend, I assure you," said Le Chauve. "It is a mistake; I
have no one in the house but my wife and daughter and two
apprentices--one an Englishman lately arrived."

"Just so, an Englishman, a spy of the English Government; a most
dangerous character, and on the most intimate terms with Lord Goldboro',
who is himself a spy."

"It cannot possibly be my assistant Suds," muttered my employer to
himself.

"_Oui, Suds, c'est bien lui, le voici_," and he showed a warrant for my
immediate arrest.

"_Mais c'est impossible, monchére, ce pauvre garçon, si jeune, si
innocent_," pleaded my kind employer.

"Nevertheless, I have my orders. If he is innocent, he will be proved
so. I come not to dispute whether he be innocent or guilty, but to
arrest him," said the incroyable. "_Allons, où est-il?_"

Now, concealment I knew to be impossible, resistance futile. The only
thing to be done was to face the matter out boldly and trust to
Providence. (Of course, I made no doubt as to whom I had to thank for my
arrest.) So walking bravely into the shop, without any show of fear, I
thus accosted the incroyable, "So, citoyen, it appears you have orders
to arrest me. I will not dispute your authority, although I know myself
to be innocent of the charges brought against me. I can pretty well
guess _which_ of my kind friends has been so considerate as to procure
for me a safe night's lodging free from expense, and his motive in doing
so."

Here I darted a withering glance at Jacques, who cowered beneath my
gaze, and another pleading one at Pauline, as if I would say, "You see
how I am betrayed, and by whom."

Pauline stood pale as death--or rather, leant against the wall for
support. She seemed unable to utter a word, and yet seemed struggling
with herself to defend me. As if spell-bound, she looked on in mute
horror, until the guard entered the shop, and I had barely time to say,
"_Au revoir, Monsieur le Chauve; adieu, Mademoiselle Pauline._ I am
innocent, whatever my enemies may try and make me out, and doubt not but
I shall be able to prove my innocence. Await my speedy return. _En
evant, gards_," and off I was conducted by the soldiers.

I was hardly out of the shop when a piercing female shriek reached my
ears, and poor Pauline had fallen fainting to the ground. I saw and
heard no more, for though I was outwardly calm, my brain was racked with
the direst apprehensions.

Here I was being led openly through the streets of Paris like a
felon--whither? To prison--to the Bastille, to be tried; possibly, nay
probably, to be condemned to death. What for? What had I done? "Nothing;
I am innocent," I said to myself. "No matter, so have others been that
have likewise perished by the guillotine," I thought I heard a voice
inwardly say. "Executions are now of daily occurrence, and not
individuals, but hundreds of individuals, perish for they know not what.
Marat, from out his obscure lodgings, and seated up to the neck in his
warm bath, doth complacently issue forth his bloody orders, from which
not even innocence itself is free. Oh, the malignity of human nature!"
thought I. "Base, base Jacques Millefleurs! for who else could have
betrayed me? And Pauline, poor girl! what would become her?"

Then came another thought forcing its way through my brain, despite my
efforts to crush it. Pauline for the present, it is true, was disgusted
with Millefleurs, especially for this last dastardly act of his, but
women are proverbially fickle--the whole French nation is volatile--and
after my death, and she had shed a few transient tears belike to my
memory, Jacques _might_ work himself into her good graces again, and
even _marry_ her--the thought was agony. The mere fear of death itself
was perhaps the last thought that occupied me, for I felt I had no
parents to regret me; on the contrary, I felt consoled in the thought
that I should see them again in the other world. No; it was not mere
death that I feared so much; but then, to leave Pauline, to be cut short
in my brilliant career, before I had established my fame!

These were thoughts that galled me. Nevertheless, I tried to console
myself. Perhaps things might not be so black as my imagination had
painted them, and even if they should be--even if I should die by the
guillotine for an imagined State offence--it was not like being gibbeted
alive in my own country for a highway robbery or murder. No; there was
something aristocratic in the idea of being guillotined, for did not the
scaffold reek with noble blood?

Amid such reflections as these I was conducted by the guard to the gates
of the Bastille, and before I was well aware of it, found myself in a
spacious cell, and heard the lock turned upon me. Here a singular and
never-to-be-forgotten scene was presented to my view. The prison was
crowded with men and women of all ranks and ages, many of whom were to
die on the morrow, yet most of them appeared to have no fear of death
whatever. Here and there were knots of friends who seemed determined to
make the most of their short stay in this world, and to enjoy life to
the utmost. Here was dicing and card playing, laughing, joking, and
swearing, as if they thought it prime fun to die in company. Surely
these men, thought I, must be accustomed to death, as they say eels are
to skinning, that they no longer mind it.

There were, however, prisoners of another cast, persons who preferred
spending their last moments on earth in prayer and pious meditation.
Parents took leave of their children, children of their parents, friends
parted from friends, lovers from lovers. Tears flowed on all sides.
Profane mirth and ribald jests mingled discordantly with pious oraisons
and tearful farewells. Others again were sullenly awaiting their doom
with crossed arms and heads drooping on their breasts, keeping apart
from the others, being too proud to pray, and yet indifferent to the
amusements of the more light-hearted.

Well, days, weeks, passed by, I suppose, for I do not recollect what
time elapsed during my incarceration, as I kept no count, being in a
kind of mental stupor all the time, nor could I bring myself to believe
that the scene before me was real, and not a dream. All the events from
the time of my arrest, flitted through my mind like a vast
phantasmagoria.

Since my imprisonment, I had been tried, found guilty, and condemned to
death. The day had been fixed, and yet it weighed but lightly upon me,
being nothing more that what I had expected and prepared myself for.
Each day brought new arrests, and each day some of my companions were
led forth to execution. It is wonderfully consoling to find that others
are about to share a like fate as one's self. This I found by
experience, for, engrossed as I was, with my own selfish thoughts, I
still found time to be touched with the misfortunes of others, and on
several occasions I offered consolation, and received consolation from
many of my fellow prisoners. In some instances I had struck up quite a
warm friendship with the inmates of my cell, but alas! our intimacy
lasted but long enough for us to know, love, and esteem each other. No
sooner had I begun to feel for my fellow sufferer as a friend and
brother, than the following day he was certain to be torn from me, and
led off to execution. One of these friendships formed in prison,
especially dwells upon me; perhaps because it was one of the longest.

My friend was a young man of my own years, and of noble family, as he
said. He told me also his name, but I have forgotten it. He was
imprisoned because it was thought he entertained aristocratic opinions,
and was a devout Catholic. He was in love, but the idol of his
affections belonged to an atheistical family. It had been the dream of
his ambition to eradicate the heretical opinions she had imbibed and
convert her to the Catholic faith. He was looked upon with suspicion by
her family, who, disapproving of the match, were instrumental in placing
him in the Bastille. I ventured to condole with him, though he needed
not my consolation, as his comfort was in his religion. Of all my
companions in prison, I found him the most resigned.

When I had learnt his tale, I told him mine, saying that I was a poor
_perruquier-barbier_ who had left his country for a while to complete
his art studies, and who, happening to fall in love with his employer's
daughter, had, through the jealousy and malice of a rival, who had
falsely accused him, found himself imprisoned in the Bastille, and
condemned to death. He was touched with my tale as I had been with his,
for our histories had something in common. We were both in love, in
prison, and condemned to death. We wept together, we embraced, we kissed
(Frenchmen always kiss); and though he was a gentleman of noble family,
and I only a lowly barber, yet, on the brink of the grave, all
distinctions are levelled, so we embraced, and called ourselves brothers
in adversity. How I prayed and longed that our lives might be spared,
that we might the longer enjoy each other's friendship, or that we might
quit this world in each other's company! But fate willed it otherwise.
On the morrow, he whom I had learnt to love as a brother was torn from
me and led to the scaffold. My life seemed now a blank. Whilst my friend
lived in his troubles, I forgot my own; now that he was no more I began
to realise all the horrors of my situation.

At length the eve of my execution arrived. I tried to give myself up
wholly to pious meditation, so throwing myself down in the corner of my
cell, I endeavoured to recall all my past life, to repent of my sins,
and pray for a speedy and peaceful end; but then the guillotine rose up
before me in all its terrors, and bodily fear would usurp the place of
holier thoughts. The nearer the hour drew, the more vividly everything
painted itself to my mind's eye. I must leave Pauline without a word of
farewell. The heartless turnkey, inured to scenes of death and misery,
would witness me depart to execution without a tear. Then the insolence
of the brutal guard, the gaping crowd, the scaffold, and surly
executioner, the cold steel close to my neck, one terrible shock and
then--then--eternity--a vast blank--an unexpected world--doubt,
suspense, _perhaps_, total annihilation.

"Merciful God!" I exclaimed in agony, "is there no hope? I ask not for
length of days, but only time to repent. Let me not be ushered into Thy
awful presence unprepared. Help me to my salvation, and fit me for my
end." Here I shut my eyes and prayed long and fervently, after which I
felt more resigned. I heard the clock toll forth the hour of midnight,
and most of the inmates of my cell were fast asleep. I now felt a chilly
sensation creep over me, an indescribable awe, as if in the presence of
something more than mortal. I opened my eyes and was aware of a vaporous
form or column of luminous ether standing beside me, which gradually
growing more distinct, shaped itself into the bearing and lineaments of
my father. My breath forsook me. My eyeballs straining from their
sockets, fixed the cloudy image without my having the power to remove
them, and I was unable to utter a word.

Presently a low, though distant, voice (whether it proceeded from the
figure or not, I cannot say, for it seemed to come from a distance and
to sing through my head) uttered these words: "My son, it has pleased
Heaven for once that the innocent shall be spared and the wicked
punished. Fear not, for I am sent to protect you. Another has been
provided to take your place at the scaffold. In another minute he will
be here. When you hear the key turn in the lock and see the door open
wide, be ready to fly with me."

"Fly with you, father!" I mentally cried. To which the spectre answered,
"I will envelop you in my essence, and being invisible myself to others,
will make you likewise invisible. Thus, as the new prisoner enters, we
will pass unseen by the turnkey through the open door, and so on, past
the guard, till we find ourselves outside. Once past all danger, I will
conduct you to the seashore, where a vessel awaits you to carry you back
to England."

Each word was uttered slowly and distinctly, and whilst he was yet
speaking I heard the key grate against the lock, and the door of my
prison being flung open, a fresh prisoner entered, accompanied by the
jailor. What was my surprise when, by the light of the jailor's
lanthorn, I recognised my old rival, Jacques Millefleurs!

I had no time to speculate on the "how" or the "wherefore" of his
arrest, but in obedience to my father's orders I passed fearlessly
through the open door, which was immediately closed after me. I passed
the guards, not without a certain tremor, yet no one appeared to see me
or impede my course. I hurried past the outer gate, and quickening my
pace, soon left the Bastille and its terrors far behind me.

Morning at length dawned, and as I passed through the streets I observed
that nobody looked me in the face, but rather looked through me into
space, as if I were air. I was thus aware that I was still invisible, so
entering a diligence, arrived in due time at Calais.

"This is the vessel," said the voice, in my ear. "Embark--the wind is
fair. Farewell," and I found myself once more alone and visible, for
sundry passers-by stared at me in surprise, no doubt wondering how I had
made my appearance there all of a sudden, not having been on the spot a
moment ago.

I hastened to take my place on board, and having set sail, arrived,
after a good passage, at Dover. How the dear old white cliffs and the
grand old castle seemed to welcome me back to my native land! How
thankful I felt for my recent miraculous preservation! How joyfully I
leapt ashore, and with what buoyancy I trod my native land again! It was
as if I had never breathed the air of liberty till now.

Once more in the land of the free, after a hearty meal, I took the
stage, and travelled until I reached my native village; and here I am,
gentlemen.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Upon my word, Mr. Suds," broke in Dr. Bleedem as the barber concluded
his story, "if you have many more tales of that sort you'll soon rival
the members of the club. What do you say, Mr. Oldstone. Was not that
story worthy of a member?"

Mr. Oldstone could not go so far as to admit that any one member of the
club had ever been equalled in story telling by a barber, and that, too,
a Frenchified barber, but he condescended to give a complacent look of
approval at the young man without directly answering the question put to
him, and then addressing him said, as he pulled out his watch, "I don't
know if you are aware of it, Mr. Suds, but the absorbing interest that
you have forced us to take in your narrative has made us quite forget
church time, and it now wants but a quarter to one o'clock."

"You don't say so," cried several voices at once. "Sure enough," said
another, "here are all the people coming out of church."

"What!" cried our late story teller, in alarm, "have I really, through
my talk, prevented your honours from exhibiting your chins at divine
service, as a sample of my art? This is indeed a sin my soul must
answer."

"Well, gentlemen," said Mr. Oldstone, "time past cannot be recalled, all
we can do is, to try to make up for it by going to church this
afternoon."

"Stop! stop! Mr. Suds, whither away so fast," he cried, as he saw the
young man making towards the door with his tackle in his hand. "You
have not told us what became of Pauline. You finished your story rather
too abruptly; it requires a sequel. Come, let's hear it."

The youth returned, after closing the door, and resting the tips of his
fingers against the back of a chair, proceeded gravely thus: "Little
more remains to be told, gentlemen. I heard from Pauline not long since.
Her letter runs as nearly as I can recollect in these words:

"Dear Mr. Suds, I write to you for the first and last time. Perhaps I
should not have written to you at all. If I have erred from maiden
modesty in so doing, I hope you will excuse me. I really could not let
so great a friend pass from me without a word. I heard of your escape by
chance, and you may imagine my extreme delight and thankfulness at the
joyful news, though I never could learn in what manner you effected it.
Enough for me that you are safe in your own free country, far from the
broils of civil discord and intestine misery.

"Alas! my friend, if I may be allowed to call you by that name, I have
suffered much since we parted; so much, indeed, that were you to see me
now, you would not know me again for the gay capricious Pauline of
former times, whose eyes and complexion you were once wont to praise.
Forgive me, my friend, forgive me, Mr. Suds, if I have already said too
much, and bear with me still, while I yet disburden my heart of more.
The words tremble on my pen, my hand refuses to write what my heart
dictates, for fear of incurring your displeasure and contempt, rather
than brook which I would that my hand would paralyse, that I might never
touch pen more; that my lips were sealed that I might never more express
the feelings that rise and crave for utterance, ay that my heart itself
would cease to beat. I can no longer restrain my pen. My eyes fill with
tears as I write. Pardon my temerity. I feel I must speak or die.

"Dear Mr. Suds, did you ever imagine that from the very first moment
that you introduced yourself at my father's shop that my heart was no
longer my own? Did you know that the attentions of the odious Jacques
Millefleurs which my vanity only induced me to encourage, from that time
became loathsome to me, and my heart told me too truly the reason why?

"Oh! my dearest friend, if you knew how hard it has been to me to
persist in dissimulation for so long, to hide from my father and from
Millefleurs that which was passing in my bosom!

"Oh! if you knew the shock I received when I witnessed your arrest and
the deadly hatred that I bore towards Jacques Millefleurs for being the
cause, oh, then my love! then, I say, you would pardon me all, ay, even
the hideous crime I perpetrated for your sake. Know then, my loved one,
that it was I--I,--your Pauline, who accused Jacques to the government
for conspiring against it, even as he had falsely accused you, and
caused him to be arrested and condemned! Know you that whilst your bark
was peacefully crossing the channel that Jacques Millefleurs was taking
your place at the scaffold? You are avenged, and through me, though I
know your noble nature must recoil at such retaliation. Enough, he is
judged; peace be to his soul.

"But, alas, evil though he may have been, will his crimes help to wash
out one iota of the stain of my guilt? Shall I ever feel the stings of
remorse less keenly because I committed the rash and mean act in the
very torrent of passion?

"Oh! my friend, I feel I have merited your contempt and scorn for having
given way thus to the promptings of my evil nature. I fancy I see you
start and shrink back whilst reading these lines, and saying to
yourself, 'Can Pauline have been guilty of so black a crime?' No wonder
you shrink back in horror and loathing; yet, loathe me as you will, you
cannot loathe me as much as I loathe myself. I thought revenge would be
sweet, but now the bitterness of remorse has filled my heart. The
remembrance of my crime is intolerable to me; it haunts me night and
day. I feel that nothing short of the sacrifice of my whole life can do
aught towards atoning for so black a deed.

"Yes, my friend, many and bitter have been the tears of remorse that I
have shed, very bitter the reproaches I have launched against myself.
But to what purpose all this? What should your young and innocent soul
know of the torments I bear within? Enough, my resolution is fixed never
to be changed.

"Start not, friend, when I tell you that I have renounced the world and
its vanities, and intend to retire into a convent, there to atone by a
lifetime of fasting and prayer for the fell crime that harrows my soul.
I was once vain enough to dream of becoming your bride, but now I am
called upon to be the bride of Heaven. Shortly after you receive this I
shall have taken the veil. Think no more of one unworthy to find a place
in your thoughts. Forgive me if you can. Farewell, yours, Pauline."

"These, gentlemen, are the words of her letter, as well as I can
recollect. The letter bears no date or address, but it bore the
post-mark, 'Brussels.' As the letter did not appear to crave an answer,
I wrote none and thus the matter dropped."

"Poor girl!" broke in Parnassus, with a sigh; "her crime was great, no
doubt; but done in the very heat of passion; and then, her repentance is
extremely touching."

"Yes," said Mr. Blackdeed, "she winds up in a manner quite dramatic."

The members of the club then expressed, severally, their approbation of
the barber's narrative, upon which the young man bowed and scraped, and
hoped he should be able to satisfy the honourable members as well on a
future occasion, if his services should be required, and then quitted
the inn. In the afternoon our members attended divine service, to a man;
and, after a stroll in the wood, returned home in the evening, which
they spent in their usual jovial manner.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's note:

    Minor typographical errors have been corrected without note.

   Although not present in the original publication, a list of
   contents has been provided for the reader's convenience.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TALES OF THE WONDER CLUB, VOLUME II ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You
