MRS. ZANT AND THE GHOST.

I.

THE course of this narrative describes the return of a disembodied
spirit to earth, and leads the reader on new and strange ground.

Not in the obscurity of midnight, but in the searching light of day, did
the supernatural influence assert itself. Neither revealed by a vision,
nor announced by a voice, it reached mortal knowledge through the sense
which is least easily self-deceived: the sense that feels.

The record of this event will of necessity produce conflicting
impressions. It will raise, in some minds, the doubt which reason
asserts; it will invigorate, in other minds, the hope which faith
justifies; and it will leave the terrible question of the destinies of
man, where centuries of vain investigation have left it--in the dark.

Having only undertaken in the present narrative to lead the way along a
succession of events, the writer declines to follow modern examples by
thrusting himself and his opinions on the public view. He returns to
the shadow from which he has emerged, and leaves the opposing forces of
incredulity and belief to fight the old battle over again, on the old
ground.

II.

THE events happened soon after the first thirty years of the present
century had come to an end.

On a fine morning, early in the month of April, a gentleman of middle
age (named Rayburn) took his little daughter Lucy out for a walk in the
woodland pleasure-ground of Western London, called Kensington Gardens.

The few friends whom he possessed reported of Mr. Rayburn (not unkindly)
that he was a reserved and solitary man. He might have been more
accurately described as a widower devoted to his only surviving child.
Although he was not more than forty years of age, the one pleasure which
made life enjoyable to Lucy's father was offered by Lucy herself.

Playing with her ball, the child ran on to the southern limit of the
Gardens, at that part of it which still remains nearest to the old
Palace of Kensington. Observing close at hand one of those spacious
covered seats, called in England "alcoves," Mr. Rayburn was reminded
that he had the morning's newspaper in his pocket, and that he might do
well to rest and read. At that early hour the place was a solitude.

"Go on playing, my dear," he said; "but take care to keep where I can
see you."

Lucy tossed up her ball; and Lucy's father opened his newspaper. He
had not been reading for more than ten minutes, when he felt a familiar
little hand laid on his knee.

"Tired of playing?" he inquired--with his eyes still on the newspaper.

"I'm frightened, papa."

He looked up directly. The child's pale face startled him. He took her
on his knee and kissed her.

"You oughtn't to be frightened, Lucy, when I am with you," he said,
gently. "What is it?" He looked out of the alcove as he spoke, and saw a
little dog among the trees. "Is it the dog?" he asked.

Lucy answered:

"It's not the dog--it's the lady."

The lady was not visible from the alcove.

"Has she said anything to you?" Mr. Rayburn inquired.

"No."

"What has she done to frighten you?"

The child put her arms round her father's neck.

"Whisper, papa," she said; "I'm afraid of her hearing us. I think she's
mad."

"Why do you think so, Lucy?"

"She came near to me. I thought she was going to say something. She
seemed to be ill."

"Well? And what then?"

"She looked at me."

There, Lucy found herself at a loss how to express what she had to say
next--and took refuge in silence.

"Nothing very wonderful, so far," her father suggested.

"Yes, papa--but she didn't seem to see me when she looked."

"Well, and what happened then?"

"The lady was frightened--and that frightened me. I think," the child
repeated positively, "she's mad."

It occurred to Mr. Rayburn that the lady might be blind. He rose at once
to set the doubt at rest.

"Wait here," he said, "and I'll come back to you."

But Lucy clung to him with both hands; Lucy declared that she was afraid
to be by herself. They left the alcove together.

The new point of view at once revealed the stranger, leaning against the
trunk of a tree. She was dressed in the deep mourning of a widow. The
pallor of her face, the glassy stare in her eyes, more than accounted
for the child's terror--it excused the alarming conclusion at which she
had arrived.

"Go nearer to her," Lucy whispered.

They advanced a few steps. It was now easy to see that the lady was
young, and wasted by illness--but (arriving at a doubtful conclusion
perhaps under the present circumstances) apparently possessed of
rare personal attractions in happier days. As the father and daughter
advanced a little, she discovered them. After some hesitation, she left
the tree; approached with an evident intention of speaking; and suddenly
paused. A change to astonishment and fear animated her vacant eyes. If
it had not been plain before, it was now beyond all doubt that she was
not a poor blind creature, deserted and helpless. At the same time, the
expression of her face was not easy to understand. She could hardly
have looked more amazed and bewildered, if the two strangers who were
observing her had suddenly vanished from the place in which they stood.

Mr. Rayburn spoke to her with the utmost kindness of voice and manner.

"I am afraid you are not well," he said. "Is there anything that I can
do--"

The next words were suspended on his lips. It was impossible to realize
such a state of things; but the strange impression that she had already
produced on him was now confirmed. If he could believe his senses, her
face did certainly tell him that he was invisible and inaudible to the
woman whom he had just addressed! She moved slowly away with a heavy
sigh, like a person disappointed and distressed. Following her with his
eyes, he saw the dog once more--a little smooth-coated terrier of the
ordinary English breed. The dog showed none of the restless activity of
his race. With his head down and his tail depressed, he crouched like
a creature paralyzed by fear. His mistress roused him by a call. He
followed her listlessly as she turned away.

After walking a few paces only, she suddenly stood still.

Mr. Rayburn heard her talking to herself.

"Did I feel it again?" she said, as if perplexed by some doubt that awed
or grieved her. After a while her arms rose slowly, and opened with a
gentle caressing action--an embrace strangely offered to the empty air!
"No," she said to herself, sadly, after waiting a moment. "More perhaps
when to-morrow comes--no more to-day." She looked up at the clear blue
sky. "The beautiful sunlight! the merciful sunlight!" she murmured. "I
should have died if it had happened in the dark."

Once more she called to the dog; and once more she walked slowly away.

"Is she going home, papa?' the child asked.

"We will try and find out," the father answered.

He was by this time convinced that the poor creature was in no condition
to be permitted to go out without some one to take care of her.
From motives of humanity, he was resolved on making the attempt to
communicate with her friends.

III.

THE lady left the Gardens by the nearest gate; stopping to lower
her veil before she turned into the busy thoroughfare which leads to
Kensington. Advancing a little way along the High Street, she entered a
house of respectable appearance, with a card in one of the windows which
announced that apartments were to let.

Mr. Rayburn waited a minute--then knocked at the door, and asked if he
could see the mistress of the house. The servant showed him into a room
on the ground floor, neatly but scantily furnished. One little white
object varied the grim brown monotony of the empty table. It was a
visiting-card.

With a child's unceremonious curiosity Lucy pounced on the card, and
spelled the name, letter by letter: "Z, A, N, T," she repeated. "What
does that mean?"

Her father looked at the card, as he took it away from her, and put it
back on the table. The name was printed, and the address was added in
pencil: "Mr. John Zant, Purley's Hotel."

The mistress made her appearance. Mr. Rayburn heartily wished himself
out of the house again, the moment he saw her. The ways in which it
is possible to cultivate the social virtues are more numerous and
more varied than is generally supposed. This lady's way had apparently
accustomed her to meet her fellow-creatures on the hard ground of
justice without mercy. Something in her eyes, when she looked at Lucy,
said: "I wonder whether that child gets punished when she deserves it?"

"Do you wish to see the rooms which I have to let?" she began.

Mr. Rayburn at once stated the object of his visit--as clearly, as
civilly, and as concisely as a man could do it. He was conscious (he
added) that he had been guilty perhaps of an act of intrusion.

The manner of the mistress of the house showed that she entirely agreed
with him. He suggested, however, that his motive might excuse him. The
mistress's manner changed, and asserted a difference of opinion.

"I only know the lady whom you mention," she said, "as a person of the
highest respectability, in delicate health. She has taken my first-floor
apartments, with excellent references; and she gives remarkably little
trouble. I have no claim to interfere with her proceedings, and no
reason to doubt that she is capable of taking care of herself."

Mr. Rayburn unwisely attempted to say a word in his own defense.

"Allow me to remind you--" he began.

"Of what, sir?"

"Of what I observed, when I happened to see the lady in Kensington
Gardens."

"I am not responsible for what you observed in Kensington Gardens. If
your time is of any value, pray don't let me detain you."

Dismissed in those terms, Mr. Rayburn took Lucy's hand and withdrew. He
had just reached the door, when it was opened from the outer side. The
Lady of Kensington Gardens stood before him. In the position which he
and his daughter now occupied, their backs were toward the window. Would
she remember having seen them for a moment in the Gardens?

"Excuse me for intruding on you," she said to the landlady. "Your
servant tells me my brother-in-law called while I was out. He sometimes
leaves a message on his card."

She looked for the message, and appeared to be disappointed: there was
no writing on the card.

Mr. Rayburn lingered a little in the doorway on the chance of hearing
something more. The landlady's vigilant eyes discovered him.

"Do you know this gentleman?" she said maliciously to her lodger.

"Not that I remember."

Replying in those words, the lady looked at Mr. Rayburn for the first
time; and suddenly drew back from him.

"Yes," she said, correcting herself; "I think we met--"

Her embarrassment overpowered her; she could say no more.

Mr. Rayburn compassionately finished the sentence for her.

"We met accidentally in Kensington Gardens," he said.

She seemed to be incapable of appreciating the kindness of his motive.
After hesitating a little she addressed a proposal to him, which seemed
to show distrust of the landlady.

"Will you let me speak to you upstairs in my own rooms?" she asked.

Without waiting for a reply, she led the way to the stairs. Mr. Rayburn
and Lucy followed. They were just beginning the ascent to the first
floor, when the spiteful landlady left the lower room, and called to her
lodger over their heads: "Take care what you say to this man, Mrs. Zant!
He thinks you're mad."

Mrs. Zant turned round on the landing, and looked at him. Not a word
fell from her lips. She suffered, she feared, in silence. Something in
the sad submission of her face touched the springs of innocent pity in
Lucy's heart. The child burst out crying.

That artless expression of sympathy drew Mrs. Zant down the few stairs
which separated her from Lucy.

"May I kiss your dear little girl?" she said to Mr. Rayburn. The
landlady, standing on the mat below, expressed her opinion of the value
of caresses, as compared with a sounder method of treating young persons
in tears: "If that child was mine," she remarked, "I would give her
something to cry for."

In the meantime, Mrs. Zant led the way to her rooms.

The first words she spoke showed that the landlady had succeeded but too
well in prejudicing her against Mr. Rayburn.

"Will you let me ask your child," she said to him, "why you think me
mad?"

He met this strange request with a firm answer.

"You don't know yet what I really do think. Will you give me a minute's
attention?"

"No," she said positively. "The child pities me, I want to speak to the
child. What did you see me do in the Gardens, my dear, that surprised
you?" Lucy turned uneasily to her father; Mrs. Zant persisted. "I first
saw you by yourself, and then I saw you with your father," she went on.
"When I came nearer to you, did I look very oddly--as if I didn't see
you at all?"

Lucy hesitated again; and Mr. Rayburn interfered.

"You are confusing my little girl," he said. "Allow me to answer your
questions--or excuse me if I leave you."

There was something in his look, or in his tone, that mastered her. She
put her hand to her head.

"I don't think I'm fit for it," she answered vacantly. "My courage has
been sorely tried already. If I can get a little rest and sleep, you may
find me a different person. I am left a great deal by myself; and I have
reasons for trying to compose my mind. Can I see you tomorrow? Or write
to you? Where do you live?"

Mr. Rayburn laid his card on the table in silence. She had strongly
excited his interest. He honestly desired to be of some service to
this forlorn creature--abandoned so cruelly, as it seemed, to her own
guidance. But he had no authority to exercise, no sort of claim to
direct her actions, even if she consented to accept his advice. As a
last resource he ventured on an allusion to the relative of whom she had
spoken downstairs.

"When do you expect to see your brother-in-law again?" he said.

"I don't know," she answered. "I should like to see him--he is so kind
to me."

She turned aside to take leave of Lucy.

"Good-by, my little friend. If you live to grow up, I hope you will
never be such a miserable woman as I am." She suddenly looked round at
Mr. Rayburn. "Have you got a wife at home?" she asked.

"My wife is dead."

"And _you_ have a child to comfort you! Please leave me; you harden my
heart. Oh, sir, don't you understand? You make me envy you!"

Mr. Rayburn was silent when he and his daughter were out in the street
again. Lucy, as became a dutiful child, was silent, too. But there are
limits to human endurance--and Lucy's capacity for self-control gave way
at last.

"Are you thinking of the lady, papa?" she said.

He only answered by nodding his head. His daughter had interrupted him
at that critical moment in a man's reflections, when he is on the point
of making up his mind. Before they were at home again Mr. Rayburn had
arrived at a decision. Mrs. Zant's brother-in-law was evidently ignorant
of any serious necessity for his interference--or he would have made
arrangements for immediately repeating his visit. In this state of
things, if any evil happened to Mrs. Zant, silence on Mr. Rayburn's part
might be indirectly to blame for a serious misfortune. Arriving at that
conclusion, he decided upon running the risk of being rudely received,
for the second time, by another stranger.

Leaving Lucy under the care of her governess, he went at once to
the address that had been written on the visiting-card left at the
lodging-house, and sent in his name. A courteous message was returned.
Mr. John Zant was at home, and would be happy to see him.

IV.

MR. RAYBURN was shown into one of the private sitting-rooms of the
hotel.

He observed that the customary position of the furniture in a room
had been, in some respects, altered. An armchair, a side-table, and
a footstool had all been removed to one of the windows, and had been
placed as close as possible to the light. On the table lay a large open
roll of morocco leather, containing rows of elegant little instruments
in steel and ivory. Waiting by the table, stood Mr. John Zant. He said
"Good-morning" in a bass voice, so profound and so melodious that those
two commonplace words assumed a new importance, coming from his lips.
His personal appearance was in harmony with his magnificent voice--he
was a tall, finely-made man of dark complexion; with big brilliant black
eyes, and a noble curling beard, which hid the whole lower part of his
face. Having bowed with a happy mingling of dignity and politeness, the
conventional side of this gentleman's character suddenly vanished; and
a crazy side, to all appearance, took its place. He dropped on his knees
in front of the footstool. Had he forgotten to say his prayers that
morning, and was he in such a hurry to remedy the fault that he had no
time to spare for consulting appearances? The doubt had hardly suggested
itself, before it was set at rest in a most unexpected manner. Mr. Zant
looked at his visitor with a bland smile, and said:

"Please let me see your feet."

For the moment, Mr. Rayburn lost his presence of mind. He looked at the
instruments on the side-table.

"Are you a corn-cutter?" was all he could say.

"Excuse me, sir," returned the polite operator, "the term you use is
quite obsolete in our profession." He rose from his knees, and added
modestly: "I am a Chiropodist."

"I beg your pardon."

"Don't mention it! You are not, I imagine, in want of my professional
services. To what motive may I attribute the honor of your visit?"

By this time Mr. Rayburn had recovered himself.

"I have come here," he answered, "under circumstances which require
apology as well as explanation."

Mr. Zant's highly polished manner betrayed signs of alarm; his
suspicions pointed to a formidable conclusion--a conclusion that shook
him to the innermost recesses of the pocket in which he kept his money.

"The numerous demands on me--" he began.

Mr. Rayburn smiled.

"Make your mind easy," he replied. "I don't want money. My object is to
speak with you on the subject of a lady who is a relation of yours."

"My sister-in-law!" Mr. Zant exclaimed. "Pray take a seat."

Doubting if he had chosen a convenient time for his visit, Mr. Rayburn
hesitated.

"Am I likely to be in the way of persons who wish to consult you?" he
asked.

"Certainly not. My morning hours of attendance on my clients are from
eleven to one." The clock on the mantelpiece struck the quarter-past
one as he spoke. "I hope you don't bring me bad news?" he said, very
earnestly. "When I called on Mrs. Zant this morning, I heard that
she had gone out for a walk. Is it indiscreet to ask how you became
acquainted with her?"

Mr. Rayburn at once mentioned what he had seen and heard in Kensington
Gardens; not forgetting to add a few words, which described his
interview afterward with Mrs. Zant.

The lady's brother-in-law listened with an interest and sympathy, which
offered the strongest possible contrast to the unprovoked rudeness of
the mistress of the lodging-house. He declared that he could only do
justice to his sense of obligation by following Mr. Rayburn's example,
and expressing himself as frankly as if he had been speaking to an old
friend.

"The sad story of my sister-in-law's life," he said, "will, I think,
explain certain things which must have naturally perplexed you. My
brother was introduced to her at the house of an Australian gentleman,
on a visit to England. She was then employed as governess to his
daughters. So sincere was the regard felt for her by the family that the
parents had, at the entreaty of their children, asked her to accompany
them when they returned to the Colony. The governess thankfully accepted
the proposal."

"Had she no relations in England?" Mr. Rayburn asked.

"She was literally alone in the world, sir. When I tell you that she had
been brought up in the Foundling Hospital, you will understand what I
mean. Oh, there is no romance in my sister-in-law's story! She never has
known, or will know, who her parents were or why they deserted her. The
happiest moment in her life was the moment when she and my brother first
met. It was an instance, on both sides, of love at first sight. Though
not a rich man, my brother had earned a sufficient income in mercantile
pursuits. His character spoke for itself. In a word, he altered all the
poor girl's prospects, as we then hoped and believed, for the better.
Her employers deferred their return to Australia, so that she might be
married from their house. After a happy life of a few weeks only--"

His voice failed him; he paused, and turned his face from the light.

"Pardon me," he said; "I am not able, even yet, to speak composedly
of my brother's death. Let me only say that the poor young wife was a
widow, before the happy days of the honeymoon were over. That dreadful
calamity struck her down. Before my brother had been committed to the
grave, her life was in danger from brain-fever."

Those words placed in a new light Mr. Rayburn's first fear that her
intellect might be deranged. Looking at him attentively, Mr. Zant seemed
to understand what was passing in the mind of his guest.

"No!" he said. "If the opinions of the medical men are to be trusted,
the result of the illness is injury to her physical strength--not injury
to her mind. I have observed in her, no doubt, a certain waywardness of
temper since her illness; but that is a trifle. As an example of what
I mean, I may tell you that I invited her, on her recovery, to pay me
a visit. My house is not in London--the air doesn't agree with me--my
place of residence is at St. Sallins-on-Sea. I am not myself a married
man; but my excellent housekeeper would have received Mrs. Zant with the
utmost kindness. She was resolved--obstinately resolved, poor thing--to
remain in London. It is needless to say that, in her melancholy
position, I am attentive to her slightest wishes. I took a lodging
for her; and, at her special request, I chose a house which was near
Kensington Gardens.

"Is there any association with the Gardens which led Mrs. Zant to make
that request?"

"Some association, I believe, with the memory of her husband. By the
way, I wish to be sure of finding her at home, when I call to-morrow.
Did you say (in the course of your interesting statement) that she
intended--as you supposed--to return to Kensington Gardens to-morrow? Or
has my memory deceived me?"

"Your memory is perfectly accurate."

"Thank you. I confess I am not only distressed by what you have told me
of Mrs. Zant--I am at a loss to know how to act for the best. My only
idea, at present, is to try change of air and scene. What do you think
yourself?"

"I think you are right."

Mr. Zant still hesitated.

"It would not be easy for me, just now," he said, "to leave my patients
and take her abroad."

The obvious reply to this occurred to Mr. Rayburn. A man of larger
worldly experience might have felt certain suspicions, and might have
remained silent. Mr. Rayburn spoke.

"Why not renew your invitation and take her to your house at the
seaside?" he said.

In the perplexed state of Mr. Zant's mind, this plain course of action
had apparently failed to present itself. His gloomy face brightened
directly.

"The very thing!" he said. "I will certainly take your advice. If the
air of St. Sallins does nothing else, it will improve her health and
help her to recover her good looks. Did she strike you as having been
(in happier days) a pretty woman?"

This was a strangely familiar question to ask--almost an indelicate
question, under the circumstances A certain furtive expression in
Mr. Zant's fine dark eyes seemed to imply that it had been put with a
purpose. Was it possible that he suspected Mr. Rayburn's interest in
his sister-in-law to be inspired by any motive which was not perfectly
unselfish and perfectly pure? To arrive at such a conclusion as this
might be to judge hastily and cruelly of a man who was perhaps only
guilty of a want of delicacy of feeling. Mr. Rayburn honestly did his
best to assume the charitable point of view. At the same time, it is not
to be denied that his words, when he answered, were carefully guarded,
and that he rose to take his leave.

Mr. John Zant hospitably protested.

"Why are you in such a hurry? Must you really go? I shall have the honor
of returning your visit to-morrow, when I have made arrangements to
profit by that excellent suggestion of yours. Good-by. God bless you."

He held out his hand: a hand with a smooth surface and a tawny color,
that fervently squeezed the fingers of a departing friend. "Is that man
a scoundrel?" was Mr. Rayburn's first thought, after he had left the
hotel. His moral sense set all hesitation at rest--and answered: "You're
a fool if you doubt it."

V.

DISTURBED by presentiments, Mr. Rayburn returned to his house on foot,
by way of trying what exercise would do toward composing his mind.

The experiment failed. He went upstairs and played with Lucy; he drank
an extra glass of wine at dinner; he took the child and her governess
to a circus in the evening; he ate a little supper, fortified by another
glass of wine, before he went to bed--and still those vague forebodings
of evil persisted in torturing him. Looking back through his past life,
he asked himself if any woman (his late wife of course excepted!) had
ever taken the predominant place in his thoughts which Mrs. Zant had
assumed--without any discernible reason to account for it? If he had
ventured to answer his own question, the reply would have been: Never!

All the next day he waited at home, in expectation of Mr. John Zant's
promised visit, and waited in vain.

Toward evening the parlor-maid appeared at the family tea-table, and
presented to her master an unusually large envelope sealed with black
wax, and addressed in a strange handwriting. The absence of stamp and
postmark showed that it had been left at the house by a messenger.

"Who brought this?" Mr. Rayburn asked.

"A lady, sir--in deep mourning."

"Did she leave any message?"

"No, sir."

Having drawn the inevitable conclusion, Mr. Rayburn shut himself up in
his library. He was afraid of Lucy's curiosity and Lucy's questions, if
he read Mrs. Zant's letter in his daughter's presence.

Looking at the open envelope after he had taken out the leaves of
writing which it contained, he noticed these lines traced inside the
cover:

"My one excuse for troubling you, when I might have consulted my
brother-in-law, will be found in the pages which I inclose. To speak
plainly, you have been led to fear that I am not in my right senses. For
this very reason, I now appeal to you. Your dreadful doubt of me, sir,
is my doubt too. Read what I have written about myself--and then tell
me, I entreat you, which I am: A person who has been the object of a
supernatural revelation? or an unfortunate creature who is only fit for
imprisonment in a mad-house?"

Mr. Rayburn opened the manuscript. With steady attention, which soon
quickened to breathless interest, he read what follows:

VI.
