THE THREE PAULS.[7]--THE ARTIST'S THIRD STORY.

During my travels in Italy I happened once to be sojourning for some
time in an obscure and sequestered Italian village high up in the
Apennines, that chain of mountains which runs through the entire
peninsular like the backbone of some antediluvian monster.

They are curious places, those Italian villages, with their tall, narrow
houses and small windows, built up the slant of a mountain like steps of
stairs. Their quaint roofs, balconies, arches, and buttresses, with at
every step some rustic shrine containing a rude painting or
representation of the Virgin Mary (the Madonna as they call her) or
other saint. The narrow, dirty, ill-paved streets, the tumbling-down
houses, from the windows of which the picturesque but dirty inhabitants
may almost shake hands with one another across the road.

Then the odd nooks and angles in the by-streets that meet the stranger's
eye on either hand as he ascends the uneven and slippery path-way
leading to the highest point of view, which is generally crowned by some
ruined feudal castle or fort built upon a rock and overgrown with ivy.
They have a distinct character of their own, these mountain villages,
and are as unlike as possible to anything seen in England. A mere verbal
description is inadequate to give the faintest idea of their extreme
picturesqueness. They require to be seen, and when this is impossible, a
picture or sketch must give the next best idea of them to the mind of
the stranger. I have several studies in oil-colour of these places
within my portfolio, which you may look at for a moment if you like.

There, you see that it is quite unlike anything you ever saw before.
Look at those figures in the foreground, how picturesque and yet how
simple their costume is! Well, but to proceed: the village where I was
staying, when the fact that I am about to relate occurred, was one of
the sort you see here. Ah! here is a sketch of the very place, and there
is the name of it written underneath. I remember that it had a certain
celebrity in the country round about it, as the cathedral (!) in the
chief piazza or square boasted of a miraculous picture of the Madonna,
that had the reputation of turning up its eyes, and in this manner
contrived to heal great numbers among the faithful who were blind, deaf
and dumb, maimed, halt, or lame.

I cannot say that I ever witnessed one of these miracles, but that may
have been from my want of faith; yet the tales that I heard of
miraculous cures from persons of some repute, the arch-priest of the
parish amongst the number, were most startling.

I had taken up my quarters in a comfortable rustic inn, not in the town
itself, but on a separate hill in an isolated spot, being built in its
own grounds, fertile with olive trees, which grew up the sides of the
hill nearly to the door of the house.

The inn was frequented almost entirely by artists. Sometimes we were a
large company, composed of all nations, when we would dine together "al
fresco" under the shade of the vine which formed a verandah on one side
of the house. At other times I would be left alone in the inn. The hill
on which I lived commanded an extensive view of the surrounding
mountains, including the township with its old ivy-grown tower
overlooking all, and which appeared as if it were sliding down the
mountain side.

I experienced an indescribable feeling of delight in rambling alone
through this romantic scenery on a hot summer's day, beneath a perfectly
cloudless sky, without a breath of wind to rustle the leaves of the
shady trees, amidst a solitude like that of the desert, and a silence
unbroken save by the chirping of the birds and the chattering of the
cicala, or at intervals, perchance, the distant shepherd's pipe, or the
wild barbaric chant of the mountaineer. With what rapture, I remember,
would I step from crag to crag, trampling the bush and bramble under my
feet, and startling away the green lizards in my path! Quaffing the
beauties of nature at every step, the dreamy influence of the balmy
atmosphere intensifying my feelings for the beautiful to an abnormal
degree.

It was on one of these sultry days during my rambles that I was taking
shelter from the burning sun under the shade of a wide-spreading oak,
reclining lazily on the soft moss, and listening to the chirping of the
grass-hoppers, when my ear was attracted by the sound of the bleating of
goats, and shortly afterwards I heard the voices of two peasants which
seemed familiar to me. They were discoursing together in the dialect of
their own village, a very different lingo from the pure Tuscan, and
perfectly unintelligible to one lately coming from Rome, yet a prolonged
stay in these parts rendered it familiar to me. I recognised the voices
as belonging, one of them to a goatherd who supplied me with milk in the
morning, the other to a peasant who possessed a vineyard, a small barrel
of whose wine I had bought the day before.

"Ohè! Antonio," cried Guiseppe, the goatherd, to his friend, "so I hear
you have sold a _quarteruolo_ of wine to the Signor Inglese (the English
gentleman) who lives on the hill."

"Well, Compar,"[8] said his friend, "and what of that?"

"I suppose you made him pay well for it, eh?" demanded the goatherd.

"Well," answered Antonio, "I make my friends pay sixteen pauls the
_quarteruolo_, but he, being an Englishman, I charged double."

"What!" exclaimed the goatherd, "thirty-two pauls for a _quarteruolo_!"

"Ay, and he paid me money down without haggling about the price, like
one of our '_paini_.'[9] These Englishmen are real gentlemen--they let
themselves be cheated without wincing. Those are the sort of men I like
to deal with. I was quite angry with myself afterwards at not having
asked four times the sum; he would be sure to have paid me."

"_Accidente!_ what a swindler!" exclaimed Guiseppe. "Well, they tell me
these English roll in wealth; that gold is as common in their country as
beans here. They say the streets are paved with it. How I should like to
go to those parts, and come back with my pockets filled with the gold
that these idiots throw away like dross. I wouldn't fatigue myself all
day long in the mountains for a piece of '_maritozza_'[10] or a dish of
'_polenta_.'"[11]

"Ha! ha!" laughed Antonio, "I've no doubt of it. I should like to see
_you_ with money, friend Peppe. You'd make a rare use of it."

"_Per Bacco!_ wouldn't I?" answered the goatherd; "you wouldn't catch me
sober again until the day of my death. If I could sell my milk to the
Englishman at the rate you sell your wine, I'd soon make my fortune."

"Well," said Antonio, "I would try it on if I were you. Perhaps milk
isn't to be had in his country."

"Perhaps not," said the goatherd, musingly. "It must be a curious
country from all accounts. They tell me they never see the sun from one
year's end to the other, and, indeed, how can they, when the sun is here
all day? I hear, too, that the fog is so thick that you are obliged to
cut it through with a knife as you go along the streets, and that the
inhabitants are obliged to burn lamps all day long."

"Yes, I have heard so, too," answered Antonio, "and that they have no
wine in their country. Well, upon the whole, I'd sooner live where I
am."

"Ah, but the gold that is to be found about the streets," said Guiseppe,
"you forget that."

"What would be the good of all the gold, if there is no wine to buy with
it?" replied Antonio. "I am very well content to live by the sale of my
wine----"

"At the rate you sell it to Englishmen, I've no doubt," broke in Peppe,
with a laugh.

"Well, my friend, of course we all try to get what we can, where we can,
and how we can," pleaded Antonio. "That's only business. I'd be a fool
if I didn't."

"Well, Compar, I suppose we are all much alike in that; but don't you
think that after having cheated the Englishman out of all that money,
you could lend me three pauls?"[12]

"Ah, Peppe, you rascal, I thought that was coming," laughed Antonio.
"What! lend _you_ three pauls! Why, when do you think you would be able
to pay me?"

"Well, I make two pauls a day by the sale of my milk and go halves with
my _padrone_.[13] That is a paul a day for us apiece. In three days,
therefore, I shall be able to pay you the entire sum. If I can manage to
gull the Englishman, I may pay you sooner," responded the goatherd.

"Ah! Peppe," said Antonio, "I know you to be a slippery customer. How am
I to be sure you will pay me within that time?"

"I give you my word of honour," cried Peppe.

"Ho! ho! what is that worth?" laughed his friend.

"May I die of an accident, if I don't! May the earth open and swallow me
up! May the Madonna cause my mouth to fall off if I fail in my word.
May----"

"There; that is enough," interrupted his friend. "Here are the three
pauls. Take them, and if you fail to pay me back in three days'
time--not one hour later, may all the curses that you have invoked upon
yourself be fulfilled."

This was all I overheard of the dialogue. Shortly after this they must
have separated, as I heard soon the voice of the goatherd in the
distance, chanting in that wild strain, with a prolonged dwelling on the
last note peculiar to the peasantry in the Italian mountains.

It was past midday when I rose from my mossy couch and sauntered
leisurely home, where, having partaken of a light lunch, I continued
working upon my picture--a large landscape--until sundown. I was at that
time the only guest at the inn, and I have no doubt that mine host and
his family made as much out of me as they could in one way or another,
yet they were as honest as the people in those parts mostly are, and
when not occupied with writing home I was in the habit of joining the
family circle after supper, when they entertained me with the gossip of
the village and stories of brigands, by whom the country was much
infested, while I, in return for their information, related to them many
things about my own country, my travels, etc. The conversation that I
had overheard that morning, however, between the goatherd and his friend
I deemed not of sufficient importance to relate to the family; in fact,
I had forgotten all about it before I reached the inn.

The unscrupulous manner in which people cheated among these simple
seeming peasantry rather amused than annoyed me. And as for the simple
incident of one peasant borrowing three pauls from another, it was a
fact so uninteresting to me, that I never gave the matter a second
thought.

Little did I imagine that the transaction of the three pauls that I by
chance overheard that morning was to be the commencement of one of the
drollest waggeries that ever came within my experience.

It was more than a week after the incident that I have related occurred
that I left my inn one morning to paint out of doors at the distance of
a mile or so. As I journeyed along the road, laden with my painting
materials, I came in sight of the goatherd's hut, built upon a hill, and
though it was yet distant, I descried a figure in the act of leaving the
hut, but which I could distinctly see was not the goatherd.

The figure had descended the hill, reached the road, and was then making
towards me. I had now no difficulty in recognising my friend of whom I
had bought the wine. He appeared to be anything but in good spirits, for
he advanced scratching his head and with his eyes fixed on the ground.

This was our first meeting since our transaction of the barrel of wine,
and had I been in a less good humour I might have taxed him with
swindling me in good round terms, but with the fresh morning air in my
face and the enchanting landscape around me, I felt in no humour to
quarrel with anyone. I thought, however, I would make him aware that I
knew how he had served me without losing my temper.

"_Buon giorno, Antonio_,"--(Good-day, Anthony)--I said, cheerfully.

"_Ah! Eccellenza; buon giorno_," replied he, with a sickly attempt at a
smile.

"You seem a little out of spirits, eh?" said I. "Now, what would you say
if I could read your thoughts?"

"You read my thoughts, Eccellenza! You joke with me."

"No," replied I; "without joking I will tell you what is passing in your
mind. You have just come from the house of Guiseppe the goatherd, and
you are disappointed because he has not paid you the three pauls that he
promised to pay you after three days. Am I right?"

"_Per Bacco!_" exclaimed Antonio. "Surely your Excellency is a saint,
and it has been revealed to you. How else could you have known that?"

"Does that surprise you," said I. "What would you say if I could tell
you more? If I could tell you the day and the hour that you lent the
three pauls to your friend? What would you say if I told you it was last
Tuesday week in the forenoon, and how you first hesitated to lend the
money, having some doubt as to your friend's integrity, but how, after
having invoked certain curses on his own head in default of his not
being able to pay, you at length yielded, and lent him the three pauls?"

"_Diavolo!_ Eccellenza must be a saint indeed to know all that," cried
the peasant, dumbfounded.

"Would you like to know more?" I asked. "At the expiration of the three
days you have been regularly every morning to the house of the goatherd,
expecting to receive the three pauls, and each time he has sent you
away with a different excuse."

"_O anime sante mie del Purgatorio!_"[14] exclaimed the peasant,
crossing himself devoutly. "Either your Excellency is a saint, or you
have the demon within you."

"Ha! say you so?" said I. "I will even venture to prophecy that you will
never get the three pauls."

"Oh, pray don't say that, Signor. Pray don't say that I shall _never_ be
paid. Why should your Excellency think so?" asked the peasant, dismally.

"Why! do you ask? Because the saints love you not," said I.

"How, Signor? Was that also revealed to you? Why should they not love
me? How have I merited their wrath?" he asked, whiningly.

"By charging me twice the sum you charge other people for that
_quarteruolo_ of wine, and for repenting afterwards that you had not
asked me four times the sum, as, being an Englishman, you thought to get
it out of me."

"_Corpo di San Antonio di Padova!_"[15] cried the peasant, casting up
his eyes. "Is nothing to be hid from you? Well, Eccellenza, what serves
it to deny the truth, since you know everything? I am a poor man, and
when an opportunity occurs for bettering myself, I am apt to do what
most men do who know what want is."

"Well, my friend," said I "you will find through life that 'honesty is
the best policy,' and that 'cheats never prosper,' at least, for long.
For when the cheat is discovered, his reputation is lost for ever, while
the honest man who sticks steadily to his labour, and puts aside his
scanty earnings, not wasting them in drinking or gambling, in the end is
blessed by the saints who give him fortune."

"That is most true," replied the peasant. "Eccellenza has spoken like
the preacher," and seizing my hand, he kissed it, and was about to
proceed on his journey.

"Stay," said I. "Would you like to earn two pauls?"

"Willingly, Eccellenza; but how?" he asked.

"Help me to carry these traps to my camping place, and carry them back
again when I return this evening," said I.

Without further parley he relieved me of my burden, and we both trudged
on together.

At first we walked on in silence, but after the first half-mile, to
relieve the monotony of the walk, I began to question my companion as to
the reception his friend Guiseppe had given him and the excuses he had
made for not being able to pay his debt.

"Well, Eccellenza," he began, "you, who know everything, are well aware
that I called at Peppe's house at the time appointed for the payment of
the debt, and that not being able to pay me, he excused himself by
saying that the goats had given so little milk, that he could not fulfil
his promise as he expected, but he promised faithfully to repay me on
the morrow. I called the next day, when he begged me to be patient with
him, as he had lost the money through a hole in his pocket. I was
annoyed at this, but called again on the morrow, hoping at least to get
a portion of the money back; but no such luck. This time he pleaded that
his wife had been suddenly seized with the fever, and begged me not to
be too hard upon him.

"'Then take care that she is better to-morrow,' said I, 'for I want my
money.'

"The next day (that was yesterday) I called again, and his wife informed
me that her husband had caught the fever, and was dangerously ill. She
hoped, however, that it would soon pass over, and he would be able to
pay me as he had promised. I went again this morning to Peppe's house as
usual for the money, when his wife came out to me with tears in her
eyes, to inform me that her husband died last night. I began to lose
patience, and said that, dead or alive, I meant to have my three pauls
back; and off I went, cursing and swearing. It was then that your
Excellency met me."

As Antonio finished speaking we had already arrived at our camping
place, and I commenced arranging my painting materials. The latter part
of Antonio's narrative immensely amused me, as I had both seen and
spoken to Peppe that morning early when he brought the milk as usual to
the door of the inn, and he never looked in better health in his life.
I remember upbraiding him for putting water in the milk, and telling him
not to try on his tricks with me, as Englishmen knew what good milk was,
adding that if I caught him at it again, I should change my goatherd. I
suppose something like a smile must have passed over my countenance at
the idea of Peppe pretending to be dead, in order to get off paying
three pauls, for Antonio, eyeing me narrowly, said,

"What say you, Eccellenza? You know everything. Tell me if Peppe is
really dead, or whether this is also a pretence."

I put on a wise look, and said, looking him full in the face, "I know
him to be alive."

"Ha! say you so, Eccellenza?" cried Antonio, starting up from his seat
on the ground. "Then _per Crispo_![16] I'll murder him when I catch
him."

"There is no occasion to do that, my friend," said I. "You will not get
your three pauls back the sooner if he hasn't the money."

"I'll go to his house again, though, if your Excellency can dispense
with my services for the present," said Antonio, "in the hopes of
catching him; though, if he is alive, he will be away in the mountains,
feeding his goats; but no matter, I'll enter the house and see for
myself if the bed is empty or no."

"Go then," said I, "and return in an hour to let me know the result of
your visit."

Off started Antonio, as fleetly as the wind, and before I could have
thought it possible, returned without appearing out of breath.

"Well?" said I, working steadily on my picture without looking up.

"Well, Eccellenza," he began, "I went straight to the house, and tried
the door, but it was locked, and there was no one within. I peeped
through the window, but could not catch a glimpse of the bed. I
descended the hill in a rage, when at some little distance, I saw
Peppe's wife. I ran to her and told her that I wanted to speak to her
husband, as I had found out that he was living. She persisted in saying
that it was false, and that her husband lay dead in his bed."

"'Then let me see the corpse,' said I.

"She replied that she was not going to fatigue herself to mount the hill
again to show me the corpse. That if I didn't choose to believe her, I
needn't.

"'Give me the key of the house, then,' said I, 'that I may go in and
satisfy myself.'

"She replied that she never trusted anyone with the key of her house,
and turned away.

"I then lost my temper, and told her that both she and her husband were
a couple of swindlers, who had schemed to defraud me of my money. Then
she burst into tears again, and said that if I really wished to be
convinced that her husband was dead, I might go to the church myself
this evening, where the corpse of her husband would be lying in
state,[17] and that I might hide myself in one of the confessionals, and
watch all night to see if he moved at all, and that if he stirred ever
so little, never to believe her again.

"Now, you see, Eccellenza, how artful women are. She hopes in that way
to intimidate me and to make me believe that her husband is dead in real
earnest. She fancies that I would be frightened to spend a whole night
inside the church with a corpse, and that I won't go. If, then, I should
call at her house to-morrow she would be sure to tell me that her
husband was already buried. I do not for a moment believe that her
husband will be exposed in the church all night, feigning to be dead;
but, just to give her the lie, I am determined to do just as she says,
and hide myself in one of the confessionals, that I may be able to tell
her that I passed the night in the church, and there was no corpse to be
seen."

"Do so, my friend," said I. "I am most curious to hear how this affair
ends."

As we were discoursing together Antonio suddenly broke short his
discourse.

"Hark, Signor!" he cried. "Do you hear? Those are death-bells that are
tolling in the village. Can someone really have died, or has Peppe's
wife set them tolling to impose upon me all the more? What say you,
Signor? Would she carry out the joke as far as all that?"

"There is nothing like doing a thing well," I answered, evasively.

"I shall be able to find out from the sacristan for whom he has been
tolling the bell this morning," said Antonio, "and if that knave of a
Peppe is not dead yet, may I die of an accident if I don't worry him to
the death. You must know, Eccellenza, that three pauls to us poor devils
is a consideration, unimportant though the sum may be _alla vostra
Signoria_.[18] What a conscience the man must have to try and swindle me
out of what I lent him in friendship, after swearing to me on his word
of honour and invoking all sorts of curses on his own head if he failed
to pay me on the day he promised! Had not your Excellency positively
assured me that he still lives, I should be inclined to think that he
had died in real earnest, as a punishment for his broken faith."

I was amused at the word "conscience" from the lips of a man like
Antonio, and the old fable of "the pot calling the kettle black" flashed
across my mind. We are wonderfully alive to the weak points of others'
consciences where our own interests are concerned, but are too often
wanting in equal rigour over ourselves. How true is that parable in
Scripture of the mote and the beam!

In order to proceed with my narrative, I must pass on to the following
day. Feeling slightly indisposed from a fever on waking that
morning--nothing serious, but just enough to prevent me from painting
out-of-doors, as I had intended--I kept my bed later than usual, and
called to my landlady to bring me a basin of broth.

As she entered my bedchamber with the steaming fluid, I noticed by the
animated expression of her face that she had news of unusual importance
to communicate to me.

"Oh, Signor!" she exclaimed, as she hastened to place the broth on a
table beside me, "what do you think has happened in the village? A
miracle! a miracle! nothing short of a miracle, blessed be the Madonna.
_Si Signor_," she added, in answer to a smile that she observed on my
countenance, "one of the most wonderful miracles that ever our blessed
Virgin has deigned to vouchsafe to us, her unworthy servants. Blessed be
her holy name for all eternity!"

"Well," said I, calmly sipping my broth, "another miracle! let's hear
it."

"Ah! Signor, you do not believe in miracles," said the hostess; "but how
will you deny _this_? Just hear. You may not have heard, perhaps, that
poor Peppe the goatherd died suddenly of a fever, and was laid out in
the church, where he remained all last night. Some robber, towards the
morning, broke into the church, and would have robbed the alms-box. He
had succeeded in unscrewing it from the wall and bursting it open--at
least, I presume so, for how else could he have got to the money?--and
was seated on the ground, counting his gains--a most incredible amount,
chiefly consisting of gold. I am sure I don't know where it all came
from, for only yesterday when I put in a _baiocco_[19] myself, the sound
it made showed me that it was all but empty. Well, as I was saying, he
was counting his gains by the light of the candle, placed at the head of
the corpse, when our blessed lady caused life to return to the defunct,
who, leaping up suddenly from his bier, seized the robber by the throat,
and called aloud for help. Our honest Peppe held the sacrilegious
miscreant as in a vice until the sacristan entered the church to light
the candles. You may imagine, Signor, the dismay of the sacristan at
seeing the corpse that had been laid out in the church all the previous
evening, now resuscitated, and holding in his grasp the wretch who had
attempted to defraud the church of the alms that pious souls had given
to support her.

"The worthy sacristan had not recovered from his surprise when the
people began to pour in by twos and threes to hear mass, all of them
starting and falling back in horror at the spectacle before them.

"'A miracle! a miracle!' cried the sacristan, at length. 'Behold the
Virgin has been merciful to us. Blessed be the name of the Madonna!'

"At that instant the arch-priest himself entered, attired in his robes.

"'What is this?' he cried, in astonishment, retreating several steps.
'Holy saints! was not this the corpse laid out in the church last
evening?'

"Here the sacristan broke in.

"'A miracle, Signor _Arciprete_, a miracle! a most undeniable miracle. I
caught this robber this morning attempting to rob the alms-box, when lo!
it pleased the Madonna to give back life to the dead in order to save
her holy church from being violated by sacrilegious hands.'

"The good Peppe, still holding fast the robber, informed the arch-priest
and the congregation that every word the sacristan had spoken was true;
that he had been dead, but had been miraculously called back to life
again by the grace of our blessed Lady in order to secure the thief.

"'You lie! you lie! You know you lie!' gasped out the burglar, as he
tried to free himself from the iron grasp of the resuscitated corpse.
'Impostor! knave! swindler,' he called out, nearly suffocated by the
firm grip of Peppe.

"But his words were lost in the sensation caused by the crowd, who
permitted no explanation on the part of the criminal. The guard having
now arrived, he was walked off to prison amid the execrations of the
crowd. The arch-priest, who, through all this scene had remained
stupefied for a time, as well he might, at length broke silence.

"'There is some mystery that I am as yet unable to comprehend. I am
informed by the sacristan that he discovered the burglar in the act of
robbing the alms-box of the church, and the money on the ground that you
all see, he avers to have been taken out of the alms-box. Now, in order
to extract the money from the alms-box the thief must previously have
broken it open, yet I see no marks of violence on the box of any kind.

"'Then there is another thing worthy of notice. The alms-box was emptied
only last week, in order to distribute its contents amongst the poor.
How comes it now, then, there appears such a large quantity of money,
which, you see, consists chiefly of gold and silver, besides paper
money; and that diamond ring I see, whence is that? I think it will be
found that the heap of money on the ground will be too large a sum to
enter into the box. If it cannot enter, how could it have come out of
it?'

"'All the greater miracle,' cried the sacristan, devoutly.

"'True, true,' cried the people. 'A double miracle! Great is the power
of the Madonna.'

"'Well, well, my people,' said the arch-priest, 'I own that I am puzzled
beyond measure; nevertheless, as it has pleased our gracious Lady to let
us find this goodly sum here in the middle of the church, it is clear
that she has but one intention--namely, that the sum should be
distributed for the glory of her name. Therefore, let the treasure be
replaced in the alms-box for the enlargement and decoration of the
church.'

"This decision of their pastor was approved of by the pious flock, and
the sacristan hastened to fill the box with as much of the treasure as
it was capable of containing, while still a large portion remained over.
This, together with the diamond ring, the arch-priest took possession
of, declaring that the whole sum should be used for the enlarging and
fitting up of his church."

Having concluded her narrative, my worthy hostess perceived something
like a smile of incredulity on my countenance, which seemed rather to
irritate her. However, I comforted her by saying that I would
investigate the matter myself, and if, after a careful and strict
inquiry, I could not account for the whole matter by natural causes, I
would then become as much a believer in the miracle as she was herself.

This seemed to pacify her, and she encouraged me in seeking every
possible means to disprove it. Accordingly, in an hour's time I was up
and dressed, and bending my steps towards the township. Part of this
curious tale I had already accounted for in my own mind. That Peppe had
not been dead, but had feigned to be so, that I knew. The supposed
robber I concluded must be Antonio. I supposed that the latter, having
discovered at length the imposition practised upon him by his companion,
a quarrel had ensued, in the midst of which they had been surprised by
the sacristan; but I could guess no more than this.

The affair of the treasure being found in the church completely puzzled
me, and my curiosity being aroused, I set straight off to the house of
the arch-priest, whom I knew intimately, to hear either the confirmation
or confutation of my hostess's statement.

On passing the church in the chief piazza or square of this little town,
I met the sacristan, whom, having been an eye-witness to the whole, I
stopped and inquired as to the truth of the rumour that had spread so
quickly throughout the village. He put on a sanctified look, crossed his
hands upon his breast, and rolled up the white of his eyes, solemnly
declaring that every word I had heard was true, that he himself had been
an eye-witness to the whole affair from first to last.

Then, after recounting to me the whole proceedings in a long rigmarole,
he wound up by calling on all the saints to open the ground under his
feet to swallow him up, if what he spoke was not the truth. He then took
his leave.

Now, I never did like the appearance of this sacristan. He was a young
man, sallow and emaciated, with an extremely repulsive countenance and
an expression of low cunning and avarice, which he sought to hide under
an affectation of sanctity and cringing humility. He seemed unable to
look you full in the face, though I often caught him observing me out of
the corners of his half-closed eyes.

He would have been the last man in the world whose word I should have
taken for gospel, and there was something in the manner in which he told
his story that impressed me with the idea, that whatever mystery there
might be connected with the discovered treasure, that _he_, in some way
or another, was interested in the affair being regarded as a miracle. I
therefore attached very slight importance to his testimony. In fact, I
merely addressed him in the hopes of discovering some discrepancy in my
hostess's narrative, being aware how much a story gains in telling; but,
to my surprise, I found the two accounts remarkably consistent. A step
or two further took me to the house of the arch-priest, which, being
open, I entered, and was welcomed on the landing by that worthy.

"Ah! Signor Vandyke," he said--you are always called by your Christian
name in Italy--"it is long since I've had the pleasure of seeing you.
You do not often honour our humble township with your presence. You have
been hard at work as usual, I suppose, eh?"

I replied that I had given myself a holiday for once in a way, not
feeling in a humour for work, and had called upon him for the purpose of
inquiring into the truth of a reported miracle in the village. Hereupon
he beckoned me upstairs, made me sit down at a table, and pouring out
for me a tumbler of his own wine from a huge jug, he proceeded to fill
another for himself; then tapping his snuff-box, a priest's inseparable
companion, and taking from it a copious pinch wherewith to clear his
brain, this dignitary recited to me the whole story of the miracle,
differing in little or nothing from the other accounts that I had heard
of it. Knowing him to be a thoroughly trustworthy and conscientious
man, I felt sure that he would not willingly deceive me; but fancying he
might in some way or other have been deceived himself, I proceeded to
cross-question him, though I could not find that he contradicted himself
in anything.

When I asked if he could vouch for the occurrence being a miracle, he
replied:

"I can only vouch for what I saw. The resuscitated corpse was holding
the accused in his grasp, while I had the sacristan's word that the
corpse had suddenly become re-animated under his very eyes, and had
seized the burglar after he had succeeded in extracting the money from
the alms-box. I must confess I am puzzled at the whole of that sum
having been extracted from the coffer, when, with the greatest pains the
sacristan could not replace more than half of it. I have the rest here,
as you see, and with it a handsome diamond ring. That is the wonderful
part, for who wears diamonds in these mountains?"

I was now perfectly sure of one thing namely, that the treasure had
never been extracted from the alms-box at all, but had been found in
some other manner. The testimony of the sacristan, as I have said
before, weighed little or nothing with me. So far from it, indeed, that
I began to see more clearly than ever that there had been some trick or
imposture, at the bottom of which was the sacristan himself.

I did not give the arch-priest the result of my reflections, but
restrained myself until I should obtain further evidence. We had
discoursed for full a couple of hours on the subject, and when I rose to
depart I told him that I was as complete a sceptic as before, as far as
the miraculous character of the event was concerned, though I placed
every reliance in his statement. I said I was perfectly sure of
unveiling the mystery before long, and when I had done so I should at
once let him know.

"And the delinquent," asked I, with my hand on the doorhandle, "where is
he?"

"Locked up, to be sure; ready to be taken to-morrow to Gennazzano, there
to await his trial."

"Could I exchange a word with him?"

"If you wish. I shall have to give you a line to the guard, in order to
admit you. Just one moment,--here--with this pass they will let you
enter."

"Thank you very much. Till we meet again--_Addio_."

It was now growing towards evening as I hastened my steps towards the
lock-up house, where I delivered the arch-priest's note to the guard,
who immediately gave orders to the turnkey to admit me. On entering the
cell I found Antonio, as I had expected, pacing up and down dejectedly.

"Well, Antonio," said I, "I have come to have a chat with you and to
hear all about the miracle that happened this morning."

"Ah! Signor, is it you?" cried he. "Now, was there ever an unluckier
mortal on earth than I?"

"Nonsense," said I, "about being unlucky. I have come to comfort you in
your trouble and to hear all about the miracle."

"Miracle! The devil a miracle," exclaimed Antonio. "They've miracled me
within four walls, who am innocent as the babe unborn, whilst they have
let go two of the greatest rascals in the village. It will be a miracle
if I escape incarceration for life when I take my trial at Gennazzano."

"Come," said I, consolingly, "you must not look so gloomily at things. I
will do what I can to get you off, but you must tell me exactly how the
whole affair happened."

"Ah! that I will, Signor, and with pleasure," said he.

Walking me up and down his narrow cell, the turnkey waiting at the door
with his bunch of keys the while, he began his story thus:--

"You will remember, Eccellenza, that before parting from you last, I
informed you of my intention of concealing myself within the
confessional of the church and to remain there all night, for the
purpose of observing attentively if the would-be corpse of Peppe there
laid out should make any movement or betray the slightest signs of life.

"At a late hour, therefore, when all was dark--that is to say, about
three hours after Ave Maria--I entered the church, and there was my late
friend attired as a corpse with a candle left burning at his head, as is
the custom, you know, Signor, in these parts. I approached him, though
not without a certain tremor, for to me there has always been something
solemn and awful in being left alone with the dead, especially at
midnight when the corpse is laid out in state in the middle of the
church, with nothing but the feeble light of one candle to illumine its
ghastly features.

"Nor did this feeling at all abate when I reflected, that in all
probability the supposed corpse was not really dead, but only feigning
to be so. If anything, I felt more terrified. However, I advanced
steadily, and gazed full in the face of it. It was very pale, and
perfectly motionless, and I began to think that this must be death, and
that your Excellency had been mistaken in being so positive that my
friend was yet alive.

"I fancied that perhaps you had seen his spirit and had mistaken it for
himself in the flesh. I forebore to touch the corpse from that same
feeling of awe that I have just described, and though at the time I was
perfectly satisfied that he was really dead, yet I still resolved to sit
up all night, concealed within the confessional, so as to be able to
tell your Excellency on the morrow that I had fulfilled my promise.

"I accordingly shut myself in, and gazed steadfastly at the features of
the corpse, never taking my eyes off all the time, in order to assure
myself beyond a doubt whether this were really death or merely its
counterfeit. I gazed long and intently, but in vain did I endeavour to
discover the slightest breathing or other signs of life. Whether the
dim light of one candle prevented me from seeing sufficiently well, I
know not.

"All was silent as the tomb, and as I gazed in breathless suspense, hour
after hour flew by, till at length I heard the old church clock toll
forth the dread hour of midnight. The last stroke had hardly died
away--How shall I describe to you my terror, oh, Signor?--when suddenly
I heard the church doors violently shaken. You know how nervous one
becomes in the dead of the night at hearing any sort of noise
unexpectedly that one cannot account for. Imagine, then, my sensations,
Eccellenza, if you can, when, hidden within the confessional at this
witching hour of night, with every nerve on the stretch, and looking out
into the solemn gloom of the church, illumined only by the solitary
candle placed at the head of the corpse--when all honest peasants, with
their families, were in bed and fast asleep, and the greatest silence
reigned everywhere, suddenly to hear a bang and a crash at the old
church doors, which soon gave way--you know how rotten they are,
Signor--and there entered, cursing and swearing, a troop of--well, upon
my soul, Signor, I took them to be emissaries of the arch-fiend, sent to
secure the soul of the defunct.

"However, after having attentively examined their forms, which were
hardly less wild than those of the foul fiends themselves, if all
accounts of them be true, I satisfied myself that they were, after all,
human--men of flesh and blood like ourselves. Signor, they were the
brigands.

"I should say there were about a dozen of them, for I did not think of
counting them, so great was my fright. They rushed helter-skelter into
the church, and without as much as glancing at the corpse, seized the
candle that stood burning near its head, and, striding towards the altar
placed the candle thereon and proceeded to count their ungodly gains. I
trembled in every limb; a cold sweat broke out on my forehead, and I
felt my hair stand up, while my teeth chattered in my head.

"What would happen next? Would the Madonna send a thunderbolt to destroy
these sacrilegious wretches, and perhaps myself at the same time? I
quite expected something of the sort. I am sure it is quite a wonder
that my hair hasn't turned white from the terrors I underwent last
evening.

"Well, Eccellenza, I presume these ruffians, after having laid wait for
the mail on the high road and robbed a number of poor gentlemen of all
they had about them, had made off with their ill-gotten treasure in the
dead of the night, and, passing through the village on their way,
descried the glimmer of the candle through the chinks of the church
door, and thought they would take this opportunity of dividing their
spoil.

"The treasure was a goodly heap, consisting of gold, silver, and paper
money, besides a few gold watches, which they all drew lots for, and a
magnificent diamond ring, which the brigand chief claimed for himself.

"'Now, my men,' said he after an equal portion had been allotted to
each, 'I think every man in my band has had a fair share of the booty.
This ring alone I claim the right of disposing of as head of the band,
seeing that it cannot be divided; yet, to show you all in what high
estimation I hold fair play, and how loath I am to possess even a
_baiocco_ more than my valiant companions without deserving it, I will
award this ring to the man who shall first succeed in hitting yon corpse
on the nose with it, I myself taking share in the pastime, and as
captain of the band claiming for myself the first shot.'

"Enthusiastic cheers greeted this decision of their chief, and the game
began. The captain had the first throw, but missed. Then a second picked
up the ring and also threw, but missed likewise. Then a third, with the
same result, and so on, till the seventh, who, more dextrous than the
rest, hit the corpse such a stinging whack on the nose that it suddenly
jumped up, shook its head, extended its arms, and leaped down from the
bier.

"You see, the rascal had been shamming, after all, sir, and, wearied out
with feigning death, had actually gone to sleep. Now, although I was
half prepared for such a resuscitation, the effect upon me was
electrical; but I recovered from my surprise soon enough to enjoy the
confusion of the brigands, who in their terror and dismay at what they
took to be a miracle wrought by the saints on purpose to punish their
impious conduct, took to their heels, stumbling over one another in
their flight, and letting drop all their treasure on the ground
unheeded, scampered out of the church as fast as their legs could carry
them.

"I was infinitely amused at the fright and discomfiture of these lawless
ruffians, and at another time should have laughed heartily at their
sudden dispersion, but my rage at having been imposed upon, and the
thoughts of vengeance I harboured against my false friend somewhat
damped my mirth. No sooner were the brigands safely out of the church
than Peppe, who was now sufficiently wide awake to comprehend the
situation, after closing the church doors carefully, proceeded to spread
a large handkerchief on the ground and to collect together all the gold
and silver that had rolled about into every corner of the church, and
which I've no doubt he thought he alone was entitled to.

"It was at this moment that I made a sudden burst from the confessional,
and rushing towards him, seized him by the throat.

"'Villain!' I cried, 'your imposture is found out. Was it thus you hoped
to swindle me out of my three pauls?'

"'Ah, friend Antonio,' exclaimed he, quite unmoved, 'is it you? Now I am
glad that with your own eyes you have witnessed the miracle that the
saints have wrought upon me in order to enable me to pay back the debt I
owe to my best friend.'

"'Liar!' cried I; 'blaspheme not. Think not to impose on me again. Give
me my three pauls at once.'

"'Three pauls!' he exclaimed. 'How on earth should I possess so
contemptible a sum? Come, sit down here, and we will divide this goodly
treasure between us.'

"Now, I knew that I had just as much right to the treasure as my friend,
since it remained unclaimed, and therefore to divide it between us was
nothing more than fair, nor did I thank Peppe for inviting me to take my
share of it. Chance had thrown it in our way, and therefore I was
entitled to the half of it.

"Nevertheless, I did not consider myself obliged to cancel my friend's
debt because of the good fortune that had befallen us, but was
determined that he should still pay me the three pauls out of his share
when the whole should be divided, for the principle of the thing, for I
am very punctilious as to principle, especially when my interests are
affected.

"However, I said nothing until after we had divided the treasure
equally. This being done, some debate arose as to what we should do with
the diamond ring. Peppe thought he had a right to it, as he said it was
all through him that the brigands had been put to flight and had left us
in possession of the treasure. He even called me ungrateful and
unreasonable when I disputed it with him, after having allowed me a
share of the booty. I was not to be put off in this way. I told him that
I had a right to an equal share of the treasure, and owed no thanks to
him for the accident of good fortune that had befallen us both. As to
the ring, I said that if either of us had a right to it more than the
other it was myself, as he was my debtor.

"'Avaricious man!' exclaimed he, 'do you still think of exacting your
miserable three pauls after my generosity in making you a sharer of the
treasure that belonged properly to me? Have I not already paid you over
and over again the paltry debt I owed you? If the Madonna had not
brought me miraculously back to life you would have had nothing.'

"'Peace, blasphemer!' cried I. 'Do you think to befool me again with
your imposture?'

"'_Imposture!_' he exclaimed, with an air of injured innocence. 'Why,
did you not see me rise from the dead with your own eyes?'

"'Come, now,' said I, losing all patience, 'do you think that I was not
sharp enough to suspect your plot from the very beginning, knowing what
sort of character I had to deal with? Do you imagine I couldn't see
through all your shamming--that I didn't see your breast heaving?'

"'_My breast heaving! The breast of a corpse heaving!_' he ejaculated.
'Strange hallucination! Trust me, my dear friend, you must have been
slightly in liquor, and saw double.'

"'And do you think that I did not observe that worn out with feigning
death so long, you really fell asleep,' said I, heedless of his insult,
'and that I did not hear you snore like a hog?'

"'I snore like a hog!' he exclaimed. 'My dear friend, believe me, you
must have been _very strongly_ in liquor.'

"'No more in liquor than you,' I cried, with some vehemence. 'That you
were sound asleep I can swear, nor would you have awoke till morning,
had not one of the brigands hit you on the nose with that ring. Then,
naturally forgetting your caution, you jumped up, stretched yourself,
which act of yours being sufficient under the circumstances to strike
terror among the brigands, who, imagining no doubt, what you would like
me also to believe--viz., that a miracle had been wrought to bring you
back to life again, took to their heels and left their treasure behind
them.

"'Now, you can't well expect me to believe in what you affect to
consider a miracle, seeing that I have been an eye-witness to your
antics from the very beginning, and as for trusting you with the ring
until it shall be converted into money, that would be too much for you
to expect from me, after the insight you have given me into your
character.'

"'Come now, old fellow,' said he, gaily, and with most provoking good
humour, 'let us have no more words about it. We'll toss up for it.
Nothing can be fairer than that.'

"'I do not agree either to toss up for it or to draw lots for it, as I
am usually unlucky,' I replied, firmly.

"'Then we'll settle it between ourselves as the brigands did. If I hit
you on the nose with it, it is mine. If you can hit me with it, it shall
be yours. Come--here goes.'

"'I object to these proceedings,' I replied.

"'What will you do, then? Will you cut it in half with a knife?'

"'Nor that either,' said I.

"'Well, now,' said he, 'you are one of the never-contented. I see you
are determined by hook or by crook to keep the ring all to yourself.'

"'No,' I replied, 'I do not wish for anything that is not strictly fair.
What I propose is this--viz., that I should keep the ring in my
possession until you have disbursed the three pauls out of your share.
Then, after the ring has been estimated by a trustworthy party and
turned into money, then we will share the produce equally.'

"'Ho! ho!' laughed he, 'so that's what you are after, is it? Ha! ha! I
see it all. You fancy that under the excuse of waiting for your three
pauls (which I know as well as you do yourself you do not care a straw
for, since you have become enriched with the half of my treasure) that I
am going to allow you quietly to abscond with the ring, which may be
worth as much as all the treasure put together, for what I know, never
to be heard of afterwards. Well, that is a cool idea! Ha! ha! ha!'

"'I protest,' said I, 'that such a thought never entered my head.'

"'Oh, of course not,' said he, incredulously. 'Friend Antonio, it is
clear that our respective mothers hatched neither of us two yesterday. I
am only a poor goatherd, yet I have learnt as much of the world from
watching the antics of my goats as you have in trailing and pruning your
vines. We are both of us men, and we know what men are. We all have our
wants, and our brains were given us to supply them.'

"'Yes,' replied I, 'in a conscientious and legitimate manner, and not to
over-reach our fellow-men in the shortest and most unscrupulous way that
our petty interests may dictate, to the scandal of all good saints and
the blessed Madonna at their head.'

"And here I launched out into a moral strain for at least an hour,
hoping to bring him round by dint of argument and persuasion to my view
of the case, but finding him at the end of that time still obdurate, and
in the same state of hardness of heart as before--for who can moralise
with such a heathen as Peppe?--I attempted to seize the ring by force,
intending to keep it until he should pay me the debt he owed me, but he
was before me, and a scuffle ensued, he declaring that he would not
suffer me to keep the ring in my possession, and I being equally firm in
refusing to let him keep it in his without first paying me my three
pauls.

"He promised faithfully to pay me the debt when he should have changed
one of the pieces of money that fell to his lot; until then, however, I
remained firm in my resolution. Words had by this time led to blows, and
the conflict was getting desperate, when, it being now fairly morning,
we were interrupted by the sacristan entering the church to light the
candles on the altar.

"Starting back in wonderment and terror at what he naturally believed to
be a miraculous resuscitation, it it was some time before he was
sufficiently calm to hear from me the true account of the case.

"At length, recovering from his stupor, his eyes sparkled with an
avaricious light at the divided treasure on the ground, and his skinny
fingers opened and shut convulsively. Then gazing furtively over each
shoulder, he put his finger to his lip, winked, and whispered hoarsely,
'My friends, the secret of your newly-acquired wealth is as yet only
known to us three. I think you will find it to your interest that it
should not be known to more, as in that case it might come to the ears
of the arch-priest, who would be sure to deprive you of every penny of
it, in consideration of its being found in his church. Reflect well, my
friends; there is but one way to swear me to secrecy.'

"'And that is?' asked I.

"'To let me have an equal share of the treasure,' said he, impudently.
'What other way would you buy my silence?'

"We both violently opposed this proposition, considering it no less than
an act of brigandage, and however Peppe and I might differ in opinion on
many subjects, we both agreed that this was a piece of extortion to
which we were not bound to submit. I said that I would sooner await the
decision of the arch-priest, which would perhaps, after all, not be such
as he--the sacristan--represented it, and Peppe swore that he would
knock his dastardly brains out in the middle of the church before he
would let him touch a _baiocco_.

"'Think again, my friends,' said the sacristan, exchanging his customary
look of sanctity for one of deep cunning and malignity. 'Think again,
and decide quickly. In another minute the arch-priest will enter the
church to perform mass. All the inhabitants of the village will be
pouring in. There is no time to be lost. Either let me have a third of
the treasure, or I shall swear by all the saints to the arch-priest that
I caught _you_, Signor Antonio, in the act of robbing the alms-box, and
that the Madonna wrought a miracle before my very eyes by raising _you_,
Signor Guiseppe, from the dead in order to chastise the burglar for his
sacrilege.'

"'He will not believe thee, thou imp of Satan!' roared Peppe.

"'We shall see,' rejoined the sacristan, with a malicious chuckle, and
rubbing his hands.

"At this moment the arch-priest entered, attired in his robes, and all
the congregation at his heels.

"'Oh, Signor Arch-priest!' began the sacristan, in a loud voice, before
the assembled multitude, rolling up his eyes and crossing himself with
mock devotion, 'I have witnessed this morning a miracle with these very
eyes.'

"'A miracle!' exclaimed the arch-priest and all the congregation in
chorus.

"'Ay,' persisted the sacristan; 'a genuine, undeniable miracle. As I
entered the church this morning to light the candles on the altar, I
discovered this burglar (pointing to me) in the act of robbing the
alms-box. He had just succeeded in extracting all that treasure that you
see on the ground before you, and which was doubtless all of it placed
in the box by our blessed Lady's own hands for the use of her holy
church. For who else in our little village could have amassed such a
sum, or, having amassed it, would have been willing to put it all of a
heap within the alms-box?

"'Well, Signor Arciprete, just as the sacrilegious knave was about to
count his unhallowed gains, lo! a miracle, such as these eyes never
before beheld, and may never see again before they close for ever in
peace.'

"'Well, well,' said the arch-priest, impatiently.

"'Well, Signor Arciprete mio, will you believe it? Yon image of our
blessed Lady suddenly raised its arm in a commanding attitude, and with
a voice of ineffable sweetness blended with severity cried out to yon
corpse, or, rather, that man, who _was_ a corpse only last night, as all
good people may recollect, "Corpse! arise and seize yon sacrilegious
ruffian by the scruff of the neck!" The words were no sooner out of the
blessed image's mouth, when up leapt the corpse from his bier, and
seizing the burglar with an iron grasp, continued to hold him until
vostra Reverenza entered the church!'

"The arch-priest remained dumbfounded for a time, not knowing what to
say; but just as I was about to break silence and try to exculpate
myself, my voice was immediately drowned by the multitude crying out,
'Down with him! down with him! Down with the thief, the burglar, the
heathen! Let him not seek to exculpate himself with lies. Hear him not;
he is guilty of sacrilege! Down with the Protestant! Blessed be the holy
man who was raised from the dead and the good sacristan to whose eyes
the miracle was vouchsafed! Down with the Jew, the Protestant, the
heretic! _Away_ with the miscreant! away with him.'

"I saw and heard no more. Hurried away, midst the hootings and
execrations of the crowd, I was flung into prison, where I have remained
ever since the morning."

There was much in Antonio's story that moved me to laughter, though not
a smile appeared upon the face of the narrator himself throughout the
whole recital. There was an air of truth, too, about his manner that
left no doubt in my mind that he had retailed the facts of the case as
they had occurred without adding to or taking from them in the minutest
particular.

I was then able to tell him the sequel of the story; how the arch-priest
had put the greater part of the treasure into the alms-box, and, for the
rest, the sum being too large to enter all of it into the box, he had
taken charge of it, together with the diamond ring, and had designed the
whole sum to be expended for the benefit of the church.

On hearing this he replied that he had rather that the money should be
disposed of in that way than that blackleg of a sacristan should get a
penny of it. He said that he was perfectly sure that the arch-priest had
only so disposed of the money from a sincere belief that it had been
miraculously placed in the alms-box, he himself being the dupe of his
own rascally sacristan to whom he trusted implicitly.

He was of opinion that had he been allowed to explain himself to the
arch-priest, his reverence would have granted him, if not his proper
share of the sum, at least some portion of it. I promised him that I
would lay his case before the arch-priest, and do what I could to get
him liberated from prison. He thanked me, and slipping a small coin into
the turnkey's hand, I quitted the cell.

It was now quite dark, so I thought I would make the best of my way
home, where my supper awaited me. The following morning was rainy, and
not being able to work out of doors, I resolved to call again upon the
arch-priest, and finding him at home, I related to him my interview with
the prisoner and the statement he gave of the case.

My reverend friend looked thoughtful for a time, shook his head, and
hinted that the prisoner's veracity might not be depended on.

"However," he added, "the tale seems feasible, and I desire nothing more
than that the prisoner should have justice. I will probe the matter to
the bottom, and if he has spoken the truth I will get him liberated as
soon as possible, and will moreover give out publicly in the church
that what we had erroneously taken for a miracle was nothing more than a
curious combination of circumstances perfectly natural, though strange,
and that I had been imposed upon by the villainous and profane lies of
my sacristan. It will require time to prove all this; meanwhile, Antonio
must take his trial at Gennazzano. He left here at five o'clock this
morning."

"So early!" I exclaimed. "I wanted, if possible, to prevent his going."

"You take great interest in his case," said my friend.

"I like to see mysteries cleared up as soon as possible," I replied. "I
know that the love of the marvellous is so great among the ignorant in
these parts, that they prefer persisting to believe in a miracle, even
in the face of facts which explain it away in the most natural manner
possible. This proneness to attribute to supernatural causes everything
that we are unable to account for on the first glance, and to yield
ourselves up implicitly to the belief of what is irrational, absurd,
improbable, without first weighing thoroughly the _pros_ and _cons_ of
the case, is one of the unmistakable signs of a barbarous and
uncultivated intellect, and ought to be discouraged as a trait unworthy
the dignity of human nature by everyone who has the improvement and
well-being of his fellow creatures at heart."

The arch-priest smiled drily, as if he had taken my last speech to
himself; then, after a pause, he began:

"No Christian man will deny that miracles have been wrought, or will
dare to call in question those of our blessed Lord or of His saints. If,
then, he acknowledges these, why should he try to combat the existence
of modern miracles, seeing that everything is possible to the Almighty?
What! Shall we limit the power of the Omnipotent, or dare to measure
things infinite by our finite faculties? It would be the height of
presumption for anyone to maintain that these things cannot be, or that
our Heavenly Father cares less for His creatures now than he did in the
days of yore."

"No wise man, Christian or otherwise," I replied, "would deny that any
wonder were possible to the Divine author of the universe, the Great
Source of all things wonderful. Yet science, the gift of God Himself,
mind you, since He in the first place created us with intellect to see
into, in some measure, however darkly, His wonderful workings, in order
that we might be taught to admire them and thereby come to a more
perfect knowledge of His unspeakable greatness--science, I say, reveals
to us that our universal Father rules all nature by means of certain
fixed laws, from which we have no reason to believe that He would turn
aside for a trifle--to excite mere wonderment among an ignorant
multitude by performing such a conjuring trick as a bleeding crucifix or
weeping Madonna. Our Lord Himself was chary of His miracles, and when
asked for a sign would often refuse; yet when He did perform miracles,
they were invariably to do good, and not to excite wonderment. If many
intelligent people disbelieve in modern miracles, it is because they
have not come within their experience, or that many seeming miracles
they have been able to explain by natural causes.

"They have been made, moreover, doubly cautious in receiving hearsay
miracles for gospel from the numerous cases of imposture that have been
discovered among the priesthood in all countries where the Roman
Catholic religion has prevailed. Then, why should miracles only be
wrought in little sequestered villages, among the ignorant and
superstitious, and not in large towns, in the presence of an intelligent
and investigating population? Why, moreover, should they be more
prevalent in mountainous districts than in any others? Why? Save that
from the topographical configuration of the country, the inhabitants of
mountain villages are necessarily more shut out from intercommunication
with their kind than the dwellers in more accessible regions, and
consequently cut off from that interchange of ideas so necessary to the
development of the human intellect.

"Because their minds thus necessarily forced into one narrow channel
till the intelligence borders on that of the brute, and is kept down to
that pitch by a coarse and monotonous diet, which hard labour enables
them to earn but scantily, and, finally, because by intermarrying
closely among their own narrow population they reproduce offspring, if
anything, more stunted in intelligence than themselves--to say nothing
of other natural influences which help to produce cretinism, goitre, and
deformity--and thus shutting out from their poor benighted intellects
their last chance of fair play.

"Ignorant by force of circumstances, superstitious because they are
ignorant, naturally discontented, with a life of hard labour that barely
supplies that life's necessaries, what wonder that the human mind thus
stunted and oppressed by all its surroundings, should seek an outlet?
That that outlet should be one that held out promises of a better time
to come than they are ever likely to see in their plodding every-day
life?

"What wonder that such a one should throw himself more entirely upon the
comforts of the religion that his village priest holds out to him than
one more contented with his earthly lot, or that, superstitious as he is
ignorant, he should daily hope for some miracle to be wrought for his
own special benefit? Is it too much to infer that a mind in which faith
reigns supreme and reason is hushed to sleep may be deluded by its
senses--that it may imagine it sees or hears anything that it desires to
see or hear?

"Is this an irrational solution of the stories so common of pictures of
the Virgin or other saints moving their eyes or speaking? Then just
consider when the average intelligence of a scanty population is at this
ebb, what temptation this holds out to the priest of the parish whose
office it is to rule his little flock by maintaining order and
restraining crime, to strike awe into his congregation and keep alive
their fanatical faith by some pious fraud in the shape of a crucifix
that bleeds by an easy mechanical contrivance, an image of the Madonna
that sheds tears, or a picture that rolls its eyes!

"These tricks were known to the heathen priests of antiquity long before
the introduction of Christianity, and have been repeatedly carried out
since by the priests of Rome. It is to the successful delusion of these
poor benighted wretches that the Church of Rome owes her vaunted
laurels. These are your miracle seers! To these alone do the saints
vouchsafe to perform their wonders! As for the intelligent and wise, if
they go to a church on purpose to see a miracle, and come away without
seeing it, they are told by the priest that it is because they lack
faith, that they do not go in the proper spirit, that their natures are
too material, that such sights are reserved only for the faithful, and
that few are sufficiently spiritualised to behold them.

"So you see there is no way of catching a priest napping. He will always
find some hole to creep out of. Like an eel, he will slip through your
fingers at the very moment that you may think you have got him. Should
any individual be bold enough to force his way through the wonder-gazing
crowd, and publicly demolish the miracle-working image or picture and
reveal to the devout bystanders the paltry mechanism by which they have
been deluded, people's eyes would at length be opened, all miracles be
liable to suspicion, and reason at length admitted into some share of
man's being.

"But there are difficulties that beset so bold an expedient. In the
first place, a man must be possessed of more than an ordinary amount of
courage to face the fury of a fanatical mob whom he knows to be ready to
tear him in pieces should he attempt to rob them of their darling
prejudices, or dare to break one chip off their sacred wood or stone.

"Secondly, the wonder-working image or picture is generally in an
inaccessible place, high up on the wall or surrounded by railings, to
prevent a too close scrutiny. Thirdly, the miracle often exists merely
in the imaginations of devout believers, without any aid of mechanism on
the part of the priest. In this case, if any man were daring enough to
step forward and openly to break in pieces the supposed miraculous image
or picture, and, having done so, was unable to detect in the fragments
any trace of machinery or means of imposture whatever, the fame of the
miracle would then gain ground, and the daring unbeliever be guilty of
sacrilege."

When I had got thus far, my friend the arch-priest drew himself up and
was about to reply in a lengthy rejoinder, when he was suddenly
interrupted by the servant girl of his household bursting hurriedly into
the room and crying out at the top of her voice, "Oh, Signor Arciprete,
have you heard the news? The _vetturino_ of the mail has just arrived.
He says that the night before last the mail was stopped on its way to
Rome by a band of brigands, who robbed the passengers, consisting of six
English gentlemen and others, of everything they had about them. Gold,
silver, and paper money--quite a heap--besides some gold and silver
watches, and, among other things, a diamond ring of great value,
belonging to one of the English gentlemen. The soldiers are on the track
of the brigands already, and a heavy reward is offered to whosoever
shall give such information as shall lead to their discovery.

"Poor Luigi! He says that he himself was robbed of his silver watch and
paper money, amounting to forty pauls, all he possessed in the world. I
do hope they'll catch the nasty wretches. I myself would see them
executed. _Gesu Maria!_ What hungry wolves! But I must be off now to
tell all the people in the village, or else that horrid gossip Maria
Giovanna will be before me, and I always like to be first."

So saying, she bounced out of the room, slamming the door after her, and
we were left once more alone.

There was a pause, and my friend was the first to break silence. The
thread of his ideas had been broken by the girl's sudden entry into the
room with the startling news, so he did not resume his discourse, but
after a while observed:--

"I suppose you see in the wild tale of this girl a corroboration of the
prisoner's statement, and a link in the chain of evidence."

"Well," said I, "it looks like it, does it not? The heaps of gold and
silver, the paper money, the gold and silver watches, and, moreover, the
diamond ring. It certainly looks as if the mystery were beginning to
clear up."

"Softly, my friend, softly," rejoined the priest, who still grudged the
event to natural causes. "Do not be rash in jumping at conclusions, for
the evidence is not yet complete. Let us first satisfy ourselves that
the girl's tale is true, for reports get wind about our village--one
hardly knows how--without the least vestige of truth in them. I will
speak to the _vetturino_ myself, and if the tale prove true, or partly
true--for, depend upon it, the story will have lost nothing in the
telling--need it do away entirely with the miracle?

"For instance, suppose instead of being a band of a dozen brigands, it
should have been only one brigand, and that brigand your friend Antonio
himself. That he alone, laden with his treasure, and being attracted by
the light of a candle that he descried through the chinks of the church
door, forced his way into the church to count over his booty. Supposing
this to have been the case, the miracle may, nevertheless, have occurred
precisely as related to me by the sacristan."

"You are very ingenious," said I, "in suggesting an improbability in
order to support your miracle, but, if you recollect, the sacristan
declared that he caught Antonio in the act of breaking open the
alms-box."

"That may have been a mistake caused by the excited state of his mind
on the occasion. However, I will see Luigi at once, and learn from his
own lips the true state of the case, for I am as anxious to get at the
truth as you are."

"Then let us lose no time in speaking to him at once," said I. "The
weather is clearing up now, and as I have nothing better to do, I will
accompany you in your stroll down to his house."

This was agreed on; so, putting on our hats, we found ourselves once
more among the dirty streets, until we reached the house of the
_vetturino_. Here we found him in front of his own door, surrounded by a
crowd of eager peasants, who were listening with avidity to the recital
of his adventures.

"_Buon giorno, Signor Arciprete_," said Luigi, raising his hat as we
approached.

"_Buon giorno, Luigi_," responded the arch-priest. "There is a strange
tale current in the village about you and your passengers having been
robbed on the high road. Can it be true."

"Perfectly true, Reverenza," was the reply. "Only the night before last
we were assaulted by at least a dozen banditti armed to the teeth, and
my passengers, six of whom were English gentlemen, along with myself."

"Stay," said the arch-priest. "You are perfectly sure there were a dozen
of them?"

"A dozen at the very least, your Reverence, I could swear."

"Tell me," said the arch-priest, "did you see Antonio the prisoner
amongst them."

"Antonio?" inquired the _vetturino_, in extreme surprise.

"Ay," replied the arch-priest. "He that hath been accused of robbing the
church and is now at Gennazzano awaiting his trial. You will have heard
the tale by this time."

"I certainly did hear a wonderful story, Reverenza, but did not know how
far to credit it," replied the _vetturino_. "The night was very dark and
I could recognise no faces.

"But, _Corpi di Bacco_! Antonio! Why I always considered Antonio as an
honest man, a simple _vignauolo_ who earned his bread by the sweat of
his brow, and whom, for his steady plodding, the saints had awarded by
granting him a better share of this world's goods than most of his
fellows."

"Ay, ay," said several bystanders at once, "we all thought so, too,
Signor Arciprete. Still, what we all saw with our own eyes, only
yesterday morning, made us change our opinion."

The arch-priest looked thoughtful, and then enquired of Luigi if he knew
anything of Peppe, the man who had been raised from the dead.

"Peppe!" exclaimed the _vetturino_, laughing, "ay, do I, and a greater
rascal never walked God's earth. That is why I was so cautious in
believing a story in which Peppe the goatherd was mixed up. I never yet
heard any tale in which he figured but had some devilry at the bottom of
it."

"You do not believe, then, in the miracle?"

"Not upon such testimony," replied Luigi. "I should believe _you_,
Signor Arciprete, if you had seen it with your own eyes," he added,
respectfully.

"All I can declare is," replied the priest, "that I saw the man Peppe,
apparently dead, and decked out as a corpse, placed within the church
upon his bier, and the morning after, as I entered the church to say
mass, I saw him as alive as ever again, still in his shroud, and
appearing to dispute the treasure with Antonio. As for the rest, it was
communicated to me by Ricardo, my sacristan. Do you know Ricardo?"

"I do," replied Luigi, in a tone of deep meaning.

"Well," said the arch-priest, "what do you think of him?"

"Well, Signor Arciprete," said the _vetturino_, hesitatingly, "as he is
your sacristan, perhaps you would not like to hear _what_ I think of
him."

"Speak out, man," said the arch-priest. "If I find him unworthy of his
post, I shall discharge him. Come, now, what do you know about him?"

"Since your Reverence presses me," replied the _vetturino_, "I must
confess that I have found him to be just such another scamp as Peppe the
goatherd, if not worse, and, in spite of all his mock piety, I have
found him to be as cunning a knave as I know for miles round. Grasping
as an eagle, wily as a serpent, and withal as poor spirited as a hare,
seeking to cover his knavery with the cloak of religion; imagining that
no one can see through his hypocrisy."

"You surprise me," exclaimed the arch-priest; "but what proof have you
of his knavery?"

"Well, in the first place," replied the _vetturino_, "he is in debt with
almost every man in the village, myself among the number, and not in one
instance has he been known to repay what he has borrowed. I have pressed
him over and over again, but he always sneaks out of it by some lame
excuse, even when I know he has been able to pay me. He wanted to marry
my sister once, because he thought there was a little money to be had,
but when he spoke to my mother about her dowry, and received for reply
that she did not intend to give her daughter to one who sought her for
her dowry, and that he who would marry her must support her himself, he
very soon slunk off. Not that I'd have given my consent to such a
scarecrow marrying my sister, even if he _had_ been less grasping. Then,
would you believe it, your Reverence, he actually had the impudence to
insult my sister when he encountered her alone, as he thought, in the
campagna. He little knew that I was only a short distance behind. I came
upon him unawares in time to overhear part of his impertinent
conversation, and I gave him such a thrashing as will make him remember
Luigi the _vetturino_ as long as he lives.

"Then, there is no doubt that it was he who picked the pocket of poor
old Matteo when he happened to be drunk; everybody believes that,
besides several other dirty tricks that I will not weary your patience
by relating, though I could if I would. As for cheating at cards, he is
quite an adept, and yet, with all this, he walks with his eyes
hypocritically fixed on the ground, counting his beads and crossing
himself, as if he were a very saint. But he doesn't take _me_ in, your
Reverence, however he may impose on our simple peasantry, for when a man
is a _vetturino_, he sees other towns besides his own, and gets to know
people of all sorts. I have been in Rome, and have picked up a thing or
two."

"Well, enough for the present, Luigi," said the arch-priest. "I will
enquire into this matter; meanwhile I intend to take a stroll with this
gentleman. Till we meet again," and he waved his hand to the
_vetturino_.

"A rivederla, Signor Arciprete," responded Luigi, raising his hat
respectfully.

"You see now," said I to my friend, as we strolled together from the
narrow streets into one of the main roads, "that there is some evidence
to support my view of the case. I never did think much of your
sacristan; his face was enough for me, but after the evidence you have
just heard, methinks you would do well to rid yourself of such an
ornament to your church."

"It is odd," replied my friend, "that I never suspected him of being
that sort of character. On the contrary, I thought him a most exemplary
young man. It is not long ago since he informed me of his ardent desire
to enter holy orders."

"A fine priest he'd make!" said I, laughing. "The church has no need of
him, for there are too many of his sort among your priesthood already.
Not that he wouldn't be popular," I added, soothingly. "On the contrary,
he would be able to manufacture miracles by the cart-load, I warrant, in
order to satisfy his flock's thirst for the marvellous. He would
probably die in the odour of sanctity and be canonised after his death."

"My friend, my friend," said the arch-priest, gravely, "our church is
not, as you think, rash in canonising a man a saint. Our lawsuits are
extremely rigid, and long--so much so, that many a holy man has been
rejected as a saint on account of the insufficient evidence of his
miracles."

Then he proceeded to enlarge upon the miracles of the saints of old and
all the legendary lore of his religion, and thus he entertained me until
we found ourselves once more at the door of his house.

"Signor Arciprete," said the aforementioned servant girl, whom we
discovered on the threshold, conversing with an elderly peasant, "here
is a man who wishes to speak to you in private. He says he has something
to communicate."

"Show him into my study," said the arch-priest. "I suppose you do not
mind my friend being present?" said he, addressing the man and glancing
at me.

"No, Reverenza," said the peasant, shutting the door of the priest's
study behind him, "it was only to bring you some information concerning
the brigands."

"Ha!" exclaimed the arch-priest, pricking up his ears. "Proceed."

"Well, your Reverence," began the peasant, "hearing that a reward had
been offered to anyone able to give such information as should lead to
the discovery of the brigands, I thought I would make known what
happened to me on the very night of the robbery, which I hope may prove
of some use to the brigand-catchers.

"It was long past midnight when I was returning from Civitella, having
purchased a hog there, which I was leading along by a string attached to
its hind leg, when in the darkness I heard the sound of many voices, and
upon listening attentively I recognised them as belonging to the
brigands, into whose hands I had fallen twice before, and I began to be
alarmed for my hog, which I made sure would be seized as a prize, and
accordingly hid myself behind a tree until the whole band should have
passed by. I was near enough to hear every word they said, but their
voices seemed neither to grow louder nor to grow less.

"At length the moon breaking from behind a cloud, revealed to me the
features of the brigand chief. He was standing erect whilst the rest of
his band were squatting or lounging around him in a circle. He then
proceeded to harangue them.

"I trembled from head to foot, and felt that my only chance of escaping
observation was to continue rooted to the spot without disturbing the
dead leaves that lay strewn at my feet, but the wretched animal, my
companion, commenced grunting and squealing, as if purposely to mark my
whereabouts, and I made sure every moment that the brigands would be
down upon us both.

"'Hush!' I cried, coaxingly.

"'Grunt,' went the brute, louder than ever.

"'Madonna mia Santissima!' I muttered, crossing myself, 'preserve a poor
man and his pig from the depredations of these marauders!'

"I know not if our good lady vouchsafed to hear my prayer, but certain
it was that the brigands paid no attention whatever to either of us, so
engrossed did they all seem with the oration of their chief, every word
of which fell distinctly on my ear in the stillness of the night, and I
must own that the tenor of it surprised me, for instead of the profane
oaths, fiendish laughter, or the planning of some new daring exploit, as
I should have expected from such men, I now listened to a pious
discourse, filled with godly phrases such as you, Signor Arciprete,
might have used yourself from the pulpit. I think I can give you almost
word for word the discourse as it ran.

"'My comrades,' he commenced, 'we have for many years toiled together in
an arduous and perilous profession; at war with society, wresting from
the innocent and good their hard-earned substance to supply our own
wants, instead of getting our own livelihood honestly and by the sweat
of our brow, as God hath decreed. Oppressed in our turn by the avengers
of our victims, we are hunted like wolves, and have to take refuge from
our pursuers in the most inaccessible parts of the mountains, in caves,
in forests and such-like secret places.

"'Rest has departed from our slumbers--for what man can rest in the fear
that the vigilant myrmidons of the law with which he has lived at enmity
are ever on his track?

"'Like Ishmael, our hand is against every man, and every man's hand is
against us. This is the lot of the brigand, as we all know. Born and
bred in danger, nurtured from the breast, not with the milk of human
kindness, but by the blood of his fellow men; his childish joys, the
groans and sufferings of his mutilated victims; feasting on horrors from
his earliest youth, unbridled and brutal in his appetites, his highest
ambition through life to be a hardier ruffian than his father before
him.

"'Have we not, my friends, committed every sort of atrocity of which
degraded humanity is capable? Nay, revelled in it, impiously defying
that very God whom we ought humbly and reverently to thank as the Author
of our beings? Let each of us look back upon our past lives and ask
ourselves how we have thanked Almighty God for his innumerable
blessings.

"'How have we repaid His ineffable love and care over us? Has it not
been by subverting His wise laws, despising His holy ordinances,
brutalising our natures, even to a degree lower than the very brutes
themselves? My brethren, we may be powerful against the weak and against
the law, yet there is One above us more powerful than ourselves, to Whom
we shall all one day have to give an account. Let us fight no longer
against God; for what is man when matched against Omnipotence. Deem it
not cowardice, my friends, to relinquish a life of evil now that your
souls have received the light of truth, but rather thank God for His
infinite mercy in vouchsafing so great a miracle through His Holy Mother
to save our souls from the bottomless pit.

"'I confess that almost from my earliest youth I never have looked upon
religion as aught but priest-craft, and scoffed at all miracles as
tricks of the priesthood to impose upon the ignorant and simple; but
what shall we say, my brethren, to the miracle we have all so lately
witnessed, or how shall we attempt to explain it away? Was it not the
intervention of the blessed Virgin herself to scare us--the impious
desecraters of her holy Church--from our evil ways? Could anything short
of Divine power have raised the dead at the lonely hour of midnight
within the very church itself, and have struck such terror into us, the
hardy sons of the mountains, who never yet quailed before mortal man?

"'Tell me, my friends, if in all my wild life, in all our joint
villainies and wicked enterprises, in the very face of death, if you
have ever known me to lack courage before to-night?'

"'Never, Capitano, never,' cried several voices at once. 'We know your
courage to be undaunted, and that there is no mortal man that you stand
in awe of; but when it comes to running counter to spirits raised from
the dead, or devils from hell, that is quite another sort of thing, and
a man need be the arch-fiend himself to be without fear.'

"'Just so,' replied the brigand chief; 'then, since none of you are able
to accuse me with a lack of human courage, you may know that my
exhortation to you to repent and alter the course of your unholy lives
is not the mere words of a craven soul who fears the law and seeks to
shun the just penalty of his misdeeds, but those of a repentant sinner
miraculously brought to conversion through the intervention of the
blessed Madonna, whom, in her boundless mercy, she had deigned to bring
to a sense of his wickedness, even in the very midst of his crimes.

"'Let us turn from our evil ways, oh, my comrades! Take the advice of a
brother sinner, more deeply dyed in iniquity than any of yourselves, and
repent ere it be too late! What can atone for all our past wickedness
save the utter renouncement of our evil ways, a life of rigid penance
and the entire devotion of ourselves to God? Marvel not, then, my
comrades in wickedness, that you hear the man once your chief and
foremost in wrong, exhort you to throw down your arms, divest yourselves
of your trappings, and don the holy convent garb, in order that by a
life of fasting and prayer you may endeavour to open up a communication
with Heaven, and wrest your souls from the hands of the Devil. I myself
will set you the example.

"'As I have been the first to incite you to evil, so will I be the first
to exhort you to repentance. Follow me, all ye that have a mind to save
your souls. Yet I no longer command, but entreat you for your own good,
for I aspire no longer to be your chief, but to live humbly as your
fellow labourer in Christ, to whom be all honour and glory, now and for
evermore. Amen.'

"As the chief brigand terminated his harangue the pale grey of the
morning sky lighted up the faces of the whole band, so that I could now
distinguish the features of each individual and the various expressions
of their countenances. Several appeared deeply affected, with tears of
repentance standing in their eyes, others sullen and obdurate. Some with
a look of vacant astonishment, others scowling and suspicious, or with a
suppressed grin.

"Their chief's harangue seemed to call for a reply, and there was a
silence of some minutes, during which period the members of the band
appeared debating among themselves by means of winking and nudging as to
what their reply should be, and who should take it upon himself to speak
for the rest. I observed that they looked towards a sturdy brigand, whom
next to their chief they honoured with the deepest veneration. To him
they turned as the mouthpiece of the gang, and seemed to intimate that
they would abide by his decision.

"This man, who appeared wrapt in thought, finding himself thus appealed
to, and feeling that he represented the sentiments of the whole band, at
length addressed his chief in these words:--

"'Signor Capitano, we are ready as ever to follow you to the very jaws
of death, according to our oath. We have served you long and faithfully
in all your deeds of daring and crime, and we will not abandon you now
in your change of sentiment, knowing, as we do, that you are still the
same brave and generous man as ever, and as such will always remain, in
whatever capacity, whether as the lawless brigand of the mountains, or
as a holy monk in the retirement of the convent cell; therefore, in the
presence of the whole band I repeat my former vows of fidelity and
friendship, and reiterate my protestations of following you through
life, to the utmost ends of the earth, if need be. The discipline of our
monastic life will be merely the exchanging one life of hardships for
another no less hard, therefore we cannot be charged with cowardice or
idleness, since there are duties before us that will call forth all the
courage and endurance of our natures.

"'As for learning and psalm-singing, it has never been exactly my
speciality; nevertheless, I quite agree with you, Captain, that the life
we have been in the habit of leading for years past is not the best to
suit us for Heaven, and I am not ashamed to say that I have long had
qualms of conscience for my past misdeeds, and had resolved upon
repentance at some future period, but never did I look back upon the
past with such horror and remorse as at the present moment, having now
been brought to a thorough knowledge of my crimes and of the bountiful
mercy of our blessed Lady to us miserable sinners, as shown in the
undoubted miracle that we all so clearly witnessed.

"'After having received so great a proof of the blessed Virgin's love
and care for us, would it not be the blackest ingratitude to continue in
mortal sin? Would it not be the most egregious folly as well, after
having had Divine warning to alter our lives, still to persist in
preferring death and hell to the sublime promises held out to the good?

"'Why longer delay, then, my friends? Think of your precious souls, and
repent while there is still breath left in your bodies. It may not be
long ere we shall be captured and executed. How shall we pass our last
moments on earth, or how brook the vengeance of a just God with all our
crimes upon our heads?

"'Enough, then, of pusillanimous disbelief and impotent struggling
against Divine will. Let us hasten to the nearest convent, confess our
sins, then, with a clean breast and humble spirit, endeavour to atone
for the past by a life of penitence and prayer, that we may fearlessly
meet our end as men and Christians.'

"This exhortation was universally applauded, and as every man is
governed by the public opinion of the little circle wherein he lives and
moves, so even those who had shown themselves obdurate and suspicious
felt themselves forced to yield to the overwhelming tide of changed
opinion, feeling ashamed of being left in the minority.

"The chief, doffing his hat, fell upon his knees and thanked the Most
High for his conversion and that of his whole band, in which prayer all
the rest reverently joined. Then rising from their knees, but with heads
still uncovered, they walked on towards the convent, singing an 'Ave
Maria,' by the way.

"I did not know what to make of all this, for as yet I had heard nothing
of the miracle, but I had hardly reached home safely with my pig, when I
heard from almost every mouth in the village of the great miracle
wrought on the night of the robbery."

The peasant having concluded his narrative, was dismissed with an
assurance from the arch-priest that should his revelation lead to the
capture of the brigands he would be duly rewarded. Nevertheless, he
informed him that he was not the person to apply to, and that he should
mention the affair to the authorities.

Being left once more alone with my friend, I asked him what he thought
of the man's tale, and whether or no it corroborated the statements made
by Luigi and Antonio. All three witnesses bore testimony to a plurality
of brigands, which seemed to me completely to overthrow my worthy
friend's hypothesis as to there being only one brigand.

I confess, though, I was still puzzled by the peasant's wonderful story.
I could hardly bring myself to believe in the utter and simultaneous
conversion of a whole band of brigands, even though they _had_ been
terrified and thwarted for a moment in their crimes by an apparent
miracle, and yet what object could the man have had in inventing such a
lie, knowing, as he must have done, that he was not entitled to the
reward until after the capture of the brigands.

My friend the priest suggested that possibly he might have been fool
enough to expect payment beforehand, and that he had concocted this
fable on the strength of it. The man was simple enough, it is true, but
there was an air of truth about the manner in which he told his tale
that induced me to give credit to it, strange though it appeared.

In any case, I knew that the truth or falsity of the man's statement
would soon be made manifest, for the brigand-catchers, once sent off in
the direction indicated by the peasant, would not fail to call at the
convent and inquire if the brigands were taking shelter there, in which
case the monks would be forced to deliver up their charge into the hands
of justice. As it happened, the brigand-catchers had already started in
search of their prey, though in quite an opposite direction.

But let us return to our landlady, who had been impatiently awaiting me,
having now prepared my noon-day meal some time.

"The signor is late to-day," she said, as I entered. "I fear he will
find the macaroni cold."

"No matter," I replied. "I have a good appetite, from having been very
busy all the morning."

"The signor has been busy--yes? And yet I notice that he left all his
painting tools at home," observed the landlady.

"True, my good woman," I replied. "The morning being rainy, I was
prevented from painting out-of-doors, but I have been very busy,
nevertheless."

"Indeed, Signor," she exclaimed, "what could have occupied you so much
as to forget your dinner, if I may be permitted to ask?"

I expected this question, knowing that my hostess inherited the vice of
curiosity, in common with the rest of her sex, in a marked degree.

"How was I occupied?" I repeated. "Why, how else than by searching to
the bottom that confounded miracle you were so full of all yesterday and
the day before."

"Oh, Signor, how you talk!" exclaimed my hostess, horrified. "What! do
you mean to say that the Blessed Virgin has not wrought among us the
greatest miracle ever heard of in these parts?"

"Well, if this is one of the greatest," I replied, "I should advise her
to give up miracles for the future, for she is no hand at them."

"How say you, Signor?" cried the landlady, shocked at my levity, and
crossing herself again and again. "Oh, you Protestants believe in
nothing! What! Is it not a great miracle to raise the dead?"

"It would be, if it were true," I interrupted.

"If it were true!" she repeated. "How should it not be true? Have you
not heard that the arch-priest himself believes it, that all the village
believes it, that the good Ricardo the sacristan was an eye-witness of
the miracle?"

"I must have better testimony than his in order to believe in the
miraculous character of the story you related to me. However, I have
since looked into the case myself and find it to be a gross piece of
imposture."

"_Imposture!_" cried the hostess. "Impossible! Who has been
imposing--his reverence, perhaps?"

"No," I said; "the arch-priest was only one of the dupes. His rascal of
a sacristan was at the bottom of all the mischief. That scoundrel Peppe,
too, was another prominent actor in the farce."

"What do I hear?" exclaimed my landlady; "the pious Ricardo and the holy
Peppe called 'rascal' and 'scoundrel.' You surely mistake their
characters."

"We are all liable to make mistakes sometimes," said I; "but I will
hope, for their own sakes, that they are not as black as they appear."

"You mystify me, Signor," she replied; "but I am sure you must be
labouring under a gross mistake, for as a proof of Peppe's being a holy
man, he has been doing nothing but miracles since he was raised from the
dead."

"What is that you say?" cried I, pricking up my ears.

"Why, Signor, you must know that as soon as Peppe left the church on the
morning of the miracle he was followed by a great crowd of the
faithful."

"Of the curious and the idle, you mean," I observed, interrupting her.
"Well, proceed."

"Who followed him to the door of his house," she continued; "and as
divers of them were labouring under sore diseases, they besought him to
touch them that they might be healed. Well, very many of them went away
cured; others, he said, he was unable to cure on account of their want
of faith."

"The artful dog!" said I, smiling. "Now, I'll be bound to say he made
all those who imagined themselves cured pay him well."

"Oh, they all gave him something, of course, from a _baiocco_ upwards,
according to their means. They tell me the worthy man has made a heap of
money by his miraculous touch."

"Miraculous humbug!" I exclaimed, half-amused and half-angry at the
success of such a vagabond.

"_Humbug!_ say you still?" cried my hostess. "How can it be humbug, if
he really _has_ cured the sick?"

"Come now," said I; "perhaps you will oblige me with a list of the
diseases that this new saint professes to have cured."

"Willingly," she replied.

"In the first case, there is old Margherita, who lives at the bottom of
the dell, and has been suffering much from nervous headaches; he but
touched her forehead, and she walked away declaring herself cured. Then
there was poor old Carluccio, who goes about begging from one place to
another. He suffered much from rheumatism; but having been touched by
Peppe on the parts affected, he immediately pronounced himself much
better, if not quite cured. Then the girl Lucia, who lives half-way down
the hill, and who used to suffer from the jumps, she likewise has not
complained since. Then, again, Pietro, the vignauolo, who was suffering
from stomach-ache, felt himself considerably better some few hours after
he had been touched by Peppe. Brigida, the daughter of old Angeluccio,
has for some time been the victim of a deep melancholy. Since she
received the magic touch she has done nothing but laugh and sing,
Giacomuccio, the idiot boy, complained of loss of appetite, but after
Peppe had touched him he went home and ate up all the _maritozza_ in the
house. Then the number of children he has cured is something fabulous;
at least, so their parents say."

"Well, well, my good woman," said I; "but these are all trifles. Can you
give me no great cure that he has effected, such as giving sight to the
blind, causing the lame to walk, the dumb to speak, the deaf to hear,
and the like?"

"One blind man came to be cured," replied my hostess; "but he, so Peppe
said, had not sufficient faith, so of course no cure could be effected.
It was the same with a cripple who had a withered arm, a man who had the
small-pox, as well as several others. He said he could do nothing with
them, as they were wanting in faith."

"I thought as much," said I. "All those whom he could not induce to
believe were cured, he sent away as not having sufficient faith--the
wily rascal! Now, my good woman, I really _do_ wonder at your placing
faith in such trash. If you knew as much about Peppe's character as I
do, you would very soon cease to look upon him as a saint. Besides, what
are the diseases you tell me he has cured? Headaches, jumps,
nervousness, low spirits, want of appetite, etc.--trifles all of them.

"He was supposed by all to have been miraculously raised from the dead,
and they therefore concluded that he must have been a holy man, for such
a miracle ever to have been wrought upon him, and being so esteemed,
they at once jumped at the conclusion that he was gifted with power to
work miracles. Accordingly, all the scum of the village turns out and
follows him, placing implicit faith in his power to cure them of their
half imaginary complaints. They receive his touch, pay their money, and
their imagination worked upon, they fancy themselves healed. This is the
secret of all his boasted success, for you say yourself that in all
those cases that were worth healing he signally failed."

"Be that as it may, Signor," replied the woman, "you will hardly pretend
to account for the miracle wrought upon Peppe himself in that manner.
How could a man be raised from the dead by imagination? I don't see
how."

"You don't? Then I will tell you; listen."

I here proceeded to retail the account of Peppe's feigned decease in
order to escape paying his debt of three pauls; the entrance of the
brigands into the church with the spoil, since proved to have been
robbed from six English travellers and others who were making their way
towards Rome on that very night; the dividing of the spoil upon the
altar, and the diamond ring that remained over, with which one of the
brigands dexterously succeeded in startling Peppe out of the sleep into
which he had fallen, by hitting him on the nose, and finally, the
confusion of the brigands at the sight of what they supposed to be a
resuscitated corpse.

I also related how they had abandoned the treasure in their flight, and
how Peppe, taking advantage of his position, proceeded to gather
together the said treasure, intending to keep it all for himself. How
Antonio at this moment burst from his hiding place in the confessional,
whither he had resorted in order to satisfy himself whether his friend's
death were genuine or spurious. How both of them disputed the treasure,
how they agreed to divide it equally, and how the diamond ring became a
bone of contention. How they were surprised by the sacristan early the
next morning. The sacristan's avarice, revenge, and hypocrisy. I dilated
on the story, not omitting the minutest particular, and winding up with
the subsequent conversion of the brigands, and letting her know upon
what authority I had come to the knowledge of these facts.

The discomfiture of my hostess at hearing her darling miracle explained
away by natural causes, and those, too, of so ridiculous a nature, was
truly pitiable. I believe, in her heart, she wished that I had never put
up at her inn, so that I might not have dispelled the sweet illusion.

Not many days after my hostess had become convinced of the spuriousness
of her once cherished miracle, the brigand-catchers returned after their
fruitless search, but being put upon the right scent immediately on
their return, they set off at once to the convent, where they commanded
the monks, in the name of the law, to deliver up the prisoners. It was,
however, too late. The brigands in the meantime had written a full
confession of their crime to the Pope, with an account of the miracle
and of their sudden determination, in consequence, of leading holy lives
for the future, and had received from His Holiness pardon and
absolution, on condition that they should follow out their virtuous
intentions.

The document, with the pontifical seal affixed to it, was placed into
the hands of these emissaries of the law, who had now nothing to do but
to retire. The brigands had been transformed into monks; so far no one
had anything to say but the six English travellers, the victims in the
late robbery, and who had lost no time on their arrival in Rome in
informing the government of their loss, and urging the immediate capture
of the brigands; having heard of the extraordinary turn the affair had
taken, now impatiently demanded their money back.

Believers in the late miracle now grew scarcer and scarcer every day,
the eyes of the most obstinate being now open to conviction by
overwhelming evidence. Peppe had lost his prestige as a saint, and the
headaches, jumps, fits of melancholy, loss of appetite, and other small
evils of which his patients had thought themselves miraculously cured,
came back again as before to the indignant faithful, who, armed, in a
body laid siege to the house of the "soi-disant" saint, vowing to burn
his dwelling over his head, if he refused to give back to each the money
that under false pretences he had extorted.

There is no knowing what an infuriated Italian mob may not be guilty of
perpetrating in the height of its fury; but let its rage be once drawn
aside by some novel excitement or emotion, its fury will evaporate,
expending its force through another channel. It might have gone hard
with Peppe, if a trifling incident had not served to avert the fury of
the mob when at its climax. This was the arrival of the diligence with
the six Englishmen, whose pecuniary losses we have before alluded to,
and who have arrived to claim their money from the arch-priest.

Trifling as this incident was, it proved sufficient to induce the
inhabitants of this sequestered village to abandon their purpose, and
their curiosity now being raised to its height, they relinquished their
victim for a time, in order to have a good stare at the six illustrious
strangers who had fallen a prey to the brigands, while Peppe, taking
advantage of the general confusion, made his escape from the back door
of his hut, and was soon lost to view in the thick grove of olive trees
that flanked the slopes of the hill.

My story now draws towards a close. The money was returned to the
owners, who were received with courtesy by the arch-priest, from whose
very lips they heard a detailed account of the late miracle, and so
delighted were they with the simplicity and urbanity of their new
acquaintance, that they each made him a handsome present out of the
money restored to them, for the benefit of his church, and perhaps as a
slight compensation for the dissatisfaction he must have felt at the
miracle not proving genuine.

The diamond ring likewise fell to the lot of the arch-priest, with the
full permission from the donor to dispose of it as he might think fit,
and after an exchange of compliments and civilities, the Englishmen took
their departure.

The duplicity and avarice of the sacristan having now fairly come to
light, he was dismissed, and another chosen to supply his place.
Meanwhile the trial of Antonio was going on in the township of
Gennazzano. Being summoned to appear as a witness, I was forced to go,
and had the satisfaction of being mainly instrumental in the acquittal
of my friend, who returned to his native village, where on his arrival
he was carried in triumph over the heads of the cheering populace.

The sum presented to the arch-priest, together with the diamond ring,
which had been taken to Rome to be estimated and converted into money,
was expended by our pastor in alleviating the sufferings of the poor
amongst his flock, after which there remained a surplus sufficient to
purchase two silver candlesticks for the altar of San Rocco, the
protecting saint of the village.

Peppe had judiciously hidden himself in the mountains until the fury of
his patients had considerably abated, but Antonio discovering him one
day, renewed his claim to the three pauls. I forget the excuse he made
on this occasion, but I know for a certainty that the debt was never
repaid during the whole of my stay in that part of the country.

Some months passed over without anything worthy of record, but the
sequel of this narrative is to come. A friar, unknown to the inhabitants
of our village, appeared one Sunday morning to perform mass in the
Church of San Rocco. His shaven crown, bronzed skin, and high aquiline
features made him an object of intense veneration among the devout
congregation, as being unmistakable signs of a pure and austere life. He
was a man of middle age, tall, and well knit, his beard on the verge of
turning grey. The features were worn, but energetic, yet a physiognomist
might have observed that the eyes were somewhat small in comparison with
the rest of the face and moved rather too rapidly and furtively from
left to right than was strictly necessary to complete the physiognomy of
one whose life had been completely devoted to religious contemplation.
His arrival had created a sensation in the village, and many who had
never confessed from one year's end to the other, impelled by curiosity,
flocked to the church that day to confess to the stranger monk,
imagining, no doubt, that the absolution of one from afar and unknown in
the villages was more valid than that of the arch-priest or any more
familiar prelate.

Familiarity breeds contempt, as we all know, therefore we so often find
that Roman Catholics prefer confessing to some priest or friar that they
meet for the first time, and are not likely to meet again, rather than
to their parish priest, to whom the most secret thought of their inner
lives is already known.

Among those who flocked to confess to the stranger monk, whose majestic
bearing had impressed everyone with his sanctity, were our two friends
Antonio and Peppe, who, having neither of them confessed for a very long
time, sought this opportunity of disburdening their souls of those sins
they were ashamed of confessing to a priest of their own native village.

Antonio, to whom I am indebted for the sequel of this tale, declared to
me that he experienced a thrill he was unable to account for as the
friar entered the confessional; but setting this down to nervousness at
not having confessed for so long, he endeavoured to concentrate his
thoughts, and began what is called a "general confession," commencing
with the sins of his earliest childhood down to those of recent date.

Fancying that he might have been guilty of avarice in pressing too
hardly on his friend for the debt of the three pauls and of sacrilege in
having hidden all night in the confessional, and afterwards quarrelling
with his friend over the treasure within the very church itself, it
occurred to him to relate the whole circumstance to the father
confessor, not omitting the entry of the brigands and their subsequent
fright at what they supposed to be the sudden resurrection of one from
the dead.

Now, Antonio during the whole of this confession had his eyes fixed upon
the countenance of his confessor, which he could see distinctly through
the grating. It struck him from the first that the features of the monk
were familiar to him, yet he could not call to mind where or under what
circumstances he had seen them before. He had been racking his brain for
some time past in order to recollect where he had ever met him, but to
no purpose.

He observed that when he began enumerating all the peccadilloes of his
early years the confessor evinced the utmost indifference, yawning every
now and then, and not deigning a reply; but as soon as he began to talk
about the miracle and the treasure abandoned by the brigands in their
fright, he immediately pricked up his ears and changed colour.

"Eh, what?" he cried, suddenly waking out of a doze. "Just oblige me by
beginning that again, will you?"

Antonio, though somewhat surprised at the monk's abrupt change of
manner, nevertheless set it down to the natural interest that so
extraordinary a tale inspired, and recommenced his story, detailing
nicely every circumstance, especially the feigned death of Peppe; with
an exact description of his own feelings at the time.

Now it happened that Peppe, being in church, and seeing his friend on
his knees at the confessional, thought he could do no less than confess
likewise, so, falling on his knees on the opposite side to his friend,
he prepared to pour out his soul through the opposite grating, into the
left ear of the father confessor, as soon as his friend should have
risen from his knees.

Antonio at length having finished, and received absolution, remained a
moment or two in prayer, whilst Peppe took his turn. Whatever the
subject of Peppe's confession might have been, it had an extraordinary
effect upon the monk. He became visibly agitated, and the muscles of his
face twitched nervously.

"Then it wasn't a miracle, after all," he gasped, throwing himself back,
while something strongly resembling an oath rose to his lips, but was
instantly stifled. His bronzed features had become livid, and hastily
giving his absolution, he hurried from the confessional.

Our two friends had remained behind the rest of the congregation, and on
rising from their knees and finding themselves alone in the church, each
advanced towards the other in a spirit of Christian forgiveness, and
shook his friend warmly by the hand, the subject of the three pauls
being dropped on this occasion.

"By the way, Peppe," said Antonio, after a short interchange of genial
conversation, "did you ever set eyes on that confessor before, think
you?"

"Well, now you mention it, friend Antonio, his features _do_ seem
familiar to me, yet I can't call to mind where I have seen him,"
answered Peppe.

"Ah!" suddenly ejaculated Antonio, "I have it. If that monk is not the
head brigand whom you so miraculously scared away by rising from the
dead, may I be--shot."

"_Per Baccounaccio!_ friend Antonio, you're right," exclaimed his
friend; "it _is_ the very same. I thought I knew him all the while. Well
this is strange; and we have been confessing to a brigand chief!"

"True," said Antonio; "but of course you have heard that in consequence
of the supposed miracle, he and the rest of his band became converted
and took holy vows, having received a full pardon from the Pope for
their past misdeeds. He now performs mass, and therefore his absolution
is worth just as much as that of any other ecclesiastic."

"Yes, yes; I've no doubt," replied Peppe; "but, I say, Anthony, if you
had but noticed how uncommonly interested he became in the middle of my
confession! That was because I confessed to him the trick I played upon
you, old friend, that night. You remember, eh? Ha! ha! Well, as soon as
I began to talk about jumping up from the dead, and how the brigands
scampered away helter-skelter, leaving their treasure behind them in
their flight, I noticed him change colour, and he grew impatient to know
more. I thought it strange that he should appear to take such interest
in the matter. Now I can account for his look of remorse that puzzled me
so before. He is angry with himself at being frightened into turning
monk by a sham miracle."

"I, too, noticed the very same thing, friend Peppe," said Antonio, "when
I likewise confessed the same story. I'll lay my life that he now
repents him of having turned monk. Perhaps he suspected that we
recognised him, and that was the reason he hastened away so after
confession. I wonder where he is now?"

The mysterious monk had disappeared; so had the two silver candlesticks
on the altar. Extraordinary coincidence! Had they also vanished by a
miracle?

They were on the altar when our two friends went to confess, as both of
them declared. Perhaps the new sacristan had taken them away to clean
after the departure of the congregation.

No; the sacristan was questioned, he knew naught but that they were
still on the altar. The affair caused much gossip and surmise, and much
time was lost in loud talking and angry gesticulations. The arch-priest
at length appeared on the spot, and our two friends Antonio and Peppe
communicated to him their suspicions--viz., that the unknown friar, whom
both of them recognised to be no other than the brigand chief himself,
had purloined the silver candlesticks immediately after confession, and
made his escape into the mountains. Search was now made for the thief,
but the day was already far spent and the monk had had ample time to
reach the convent before his pursuers thought of going in search of him.

On the following day the arch-priest called at the convent in person,
acquainted the monks there with his loss, and stated his suspicions. He
was informed by them that the band of brigands who had only lately
become converted and had entered their order, and who, up to the present
time, had shown themselves most exemplary in conduct, to the great
surprise of their brother monks, had suddenly decamped in the dead of
night, no one knew how. They had evidently resumed their former
profession, as they had left their cassocks behind them, and their arms,
which had been hung up in the chapel as trophies of their conversion,
had been removed.

The affair of the silver candlesticks was unknown to the rest of the
order, but shortly afterwards a silversmith in Rome, to whose shop a
handsome pair of silver candlesticks was brought for sale, having some
scruples at receiving stolen goods, and distrusting much the appearance
of the person who brought them, sent secretly to the police, who took in
charge the suspected party. Now it happened about that time in the
vicinity of Rome, that a certain band of brigands had been guilty of the
most fearful outrages. The police were already on their track, and the
capture of the suspected vendor of stolen goods subsequently led to the
discovery of the whole band, which was soon identified as the same
which had once received the Pope's pardon and had entered into holy
orders. They were accordingly tried, condemned, and executed on the
summit of the fort of St. Angelo, which is built on the ruins of the
ancient tomb of Hadrian, on the banks of the Tiber.

       *       *       *       *       *

By the time our artist had finished his story, and received Helen's warm
eulogium on the same, the sitting had already come to an end. Dame
Hearty now knocked at the door to ask if her daughter could be spared,
as she found that she really could not go through her household duties
without her.

"Just one moment," said McGuilp; "there, Helen, just place yourself once
more as you were, and I shall have finished with you for the day. Just
one more touch."

The artist then began working rapidly for some ten minutes, as if his
life were at stake, when suddenly throwing himself back in his chair, as
if exhausted after some stupendous effort, he exclaimed: "There now!"

These magical words were the signal for Helen's liberation, and now both
mother and daughter placed themselves behind the artist's chair and
proceeded to criticise his work.

"Oh my! what a love of a pictur'!" exclaimed Dame Hearty; "and how
exactly like our Helen. Oh, if ever! Well I never! I do declare," etc.

"And how you have improved it this sitting! Why, last time I thought
there was no more to do to it, but now it is life itself."

"You flatter me, Helen," said McGuilp; "for I assure you that the
portrait is still in a most crude and unfinished state."

"How say you?--still unfinished?" cried Helen. "Well, if you go on at
that rate, by next sitting I shall expect to hear it speak."

"Come, Helen," said her mother, "we must be off, for we have no time to
lose. Another time, when we have less to do, I shall be most happy to
let you assist the gentleman to finish his pictur'," and curtseying to
McGuilp, she led her daughter out of the room, while the painter was
left to the uninspired operations of cleaning his palette and brushes,
and putting his studio in order previous to joining the other members of
the club.

FOOTNOTES:

[7] A paul is half a franc.

[8] A corruption of the word _compare_ (godfather) which is used as a
familiar appellation among the peasantry, even when no such relations
exists between them.

[9] Paini, the grade between a peasant and a gentleman.

[10] A sort of pudding made of chestnut flour.

[11] A species of cake made of Indian corn, used much among the Italian
peasantry, being cheaper than bread.

[12] A paul is half a franc, and equal to five pence.

[13] Padrone, master.

[14] Oh, my holy souls of Purgatory!

[15] Body of St. Anthony of Padua!

[16] A corruption of per Cristo.

[17] It is the custom in Roman Catholic countries for the dead to be
exposed in the centre of the church for twenty-four hours upon a bier,
with a candle burning.

[18] To your Lordship.

[19] A halfpenny.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER IV.
