THE SWISS LADY'S STORY.

"It was not I," said Madame de Geirsteche; "it was my mother who saw the
apparition you have heard of; but I can tell you all the particulars of
the story if you have patience to listen to it."

"You would be conferring a great favour," I said; "from what I have
heard of the circumstance, I am already much interested."

We were in the steamboat that plies between Vevay and Geneva when this
conversation occurred, and as there could not be a more convenient
opportunity of hearing the narration, we retired from the crowd of
travellers that thronged the deck, and Madame de G. began as follows.

"My husband's father, the elder Monsieur Geirsteche, was acquainted with
two young men named Zwengler. He was at school and at college with them,
and their intimacy continued after their education was finished. When
one was fourteen and the other ten, they had the misfortune to lose both
their parents by an accident. They were crossing the Alps, when by the
fall of an avalanche their carriage was overturned down a precipice, and
they and their servants perished.

"The Zwenglers were people of good family but small fortune; and as they
had always lived fully up to what they had, their property, when it came
to be divided between their four children, for they had two daughters
besides the sons I have named, afforded but an inadequate portion to
each; but this misfortune was mitigated by their rich relations--a
wealthy uncle adopted the boys, and an equally wealthy aunt took the
girls. This was but just, for they had both been enriched by what ought
to have been the inheritance of the other sister, the mother of these
children, who, having married Monsieur Zwengler contrary to the wishes
of her parents, was cut off with a shilling. This uncle and aunt had
never married, for their father objected to every match that was
proposed, as not sufficiently advantageous; whilst the brother and
sister, taking warning by the fate of Madame Zwengler, preferred living
single to the risk of incurring the same penalty. The daughters having
good fortunes married early, and I believe did well enough; it is on the
history of the sons that my story turns.

"As I mentioned, they were at the same school with my husband's father
when the catastrophe happened to their parents, and he remembered
afterwards the different manner in which the news had affected them;
Alfred's grief was apparently stormy and violent; that of the other was
less demonstrative, but more genuine. Alfred, in short, was secretly
elated at the independence he expected would be the consequence of this
sudden bereavement; and he lost no time in assuming over Louis the
importance and authority of an elder brother. Louis was an enthusiastic,
warm-hearted, and imaginative child, too young to appreciate his loss in
a worldly point of view, but mourning his parents--especially his
mother--sincerely.

"Alfred's hopes of independence were considerably abated, when he found
himself under the guardianship of Mr. Altorf, his uncle, a proud,
pompous, tenacious, arbitrary man; on the other hand, he was somewhat
consoled by the expectation of becoming the heir to his large fortune,
the magnitude of which he had frequently heard descanted on by his
parents. He soon discovered, too, that as the heir expectant he had
acquired an importance that he had never enjoyed before; and in order to
make sure of these advantages, he neglected no means of recommending
himself to the old gentleman, insomuch, that Mr. Altorf, being very fond
of the study of chemistry, Alfred affected great delight in the same
pursuit, sacrificing his own inclinations to shut himself up in his
uncle's laboratory, with crucibles and chemicals that he often wished
might be consumed in the furnace they employed. Louis, the while,
pursued his studies, thoughtless of the future as young people usually
are; but as he advanced in age, he began to exhibit symptoms of a
failing constitution, and as the law for which his uncle designed him
required more study than was compatible with health, he was allowed to
follow his inclination and become a soldier. With this view, he was sent
to Paris, and committed to the surveillance of a friend of his uncle
there, who was in the French service.

"No profession being proposed for Alfred, he lived on with his uncle,
confirmed in the belief that though his brother, if he survived, would
be remembered in the old man's will, he himself should inherit the bulk
of the property. It was a weary life to him, shut up half the day in the
laboratory, that he detested, in constant association with an
uncongenial companion. Moreover, up to the period of his being of age,
he was kept almost entirely without money, and was excluded from all the
pleasures suitable to his years. When he attained his majority, he
became possessed of the small patrimony that devolved on him as the
eldest son of his father, and was enabled to make himself some amends
for the privations he had previously submitted to. Not that he threw off
his uncle's authority, or became openly less submissive and conformable;
but secretly he contrived to procure himself many relaxations and
enjoyments, from which he had before been shut out; and in the attaining
and purchasing these pleasures he freely squandered all the proceeds of
his inheritance, reckoning securely on the future being well provided
for.

"His uncle inhabited a villa outside of Geneva, on the road to Ferney,
and seldom came into the town, except when he visited his banker. His
chemicals and other articles, Alfred usually purchased, and he had made
acquaintance with several young men, whose society and amusements he
availed himself of these opportunities to enjoy. One frosty day in
December, he was strolling arm in arm with some of these youths, when,
on turning a corner, he unexpectedly saw sailing down the street before
them, the massive figure of his uncle, attired in his best chocolate
suit, his hair powdered, and a long pigtail hanging down his back. The
air of conscious importance and pomposity with which he strode along,
amused these gay companions, and they were diverting themselves at the
old gentleman's expense, when his foot slipped on a slide, and he fell
down. This was irresistible; and they all burst into a simultaneous
shout of laughter. A passer by immediately assisted him to rise; and as
he did so, he turned round to see from whence the merriment
proceeded--perhaps he had recognised his nephew's voice--at all events,
Alfred felt sure he _saw_, if he did not _hear_, and thought it prudent
to apologise for his ill-timed hilarity, which he sought to excuse by
alleging that he had not at first been aware who it was that had fallen.
Mr. Altorf looked stern; but as he said nothing, and never alluded to
the subject again, Alfred congratulated himself at having got off so
well, and endeavoured to efface any unpleasant impression that might
remain by extra attentions and compliances.

"Everything went on as usual till the following year, when one morning
the old gentleman was found dead in his bed, and the medical men
pronounced that he had expired in a fit of apoplexy.

"When the will--which was dated several years back--came to be read, it
was found that after two trifling legacies, and five thousand pounds to
Louis, the whole estate was bequeathed to Alfred, whose breast dilated
with joy, as the words fell upon his ear, although it was no more than
he was prepared for; but the first flush of triumph had not subsided,
when the lawyer arrested the incipient congratulations of the company,
by saying, 'Here is a codicil, I see, dated the fourteenth of December,
last year.'

"The company resumed their seats, and a cold chill crept through
Alfred's veins, as the reader proceeded as follows:--

"'I hereby revoke the bequest hereabove made to my nephew Alfred
Zwengler, and I give and bequeath the whole of my estates, real and
personal, to my nephew, Louis Zwengler. To my nephew, Alfred Zwengler, I
give and bequeath my bust, which stands on the hall table. It is
accounted a good likeness, and when I am gone, it will serve to keep him
merry. May he have many a hearty laugh at it--on the wrong side of his
mouth.'

"The auditors looked confounded on hearing this extraordinary paragraph,
but Alfred understood it too well.

"It is unnecessary to dwell upon his feelings; a quarter of an hour ago
he was one of the richest men of his canton--now there were not many
poorer in all Switzerland than Alfred Zwengler. He had awakened from his
long dream of wealth and importance, and habits of expense, to poverty
and utter insignificance; while Louis, whom he had always
despised--Louis, over whom he had domineered, and assumed the airs of an
elder brother and a great man, had leapt into his shoes at one bound,
and left him grovelling in the mud. How he hated him.

"But he might die; what letters they had had from Paris reported him
very sickly; he might be killed in battle, for Europe was full of wars
in those days; but he might do neither; and at all events, in the
meantime what was Alfred to do? A thousand wild and desperate schemes
passed through his brain for bettering his situation, but none seemed
practicable. The sole remnant of the property he had inherited from his
father, that still remained in his possession, was a house in Geneva,
called L'Hôtel Dupont, that he had mortgaged to nearly its full value,
intending at his uncle's death, to pay the money and redeem it. It had
been let, but was now empty and under repair, and the creditors talked
of selling it to pay themselves. But Alfred induced them to wait, by
giving out that as soon as his brother understood his situation, he
would advance the necessary sum to relieve him. Perhaps he really
entertained this expectation, but he had no precise right to do so, for
he had never given Louis a crown piece, though the latter had suffered
much more from his uncle's parsimony than he had, having inherited
nothing whatever from his parents. However, Alfred wrote to Louis,
dating his letter from that house, dilating on his difficulties, and the
hardness of his fate, and hinting that, had he come into possession of
his uncle's fortune, as he had every right to expect he should, how he
should have felt it his duty to act towards an only brother.

"He received no answer to this appeal; and, at first, he drew very
unfavourable conclusions from his brother's silence; but, as time went
on, and Louis neither appeared to take possession of his inheritance,
nor wrote to account for his absence, hope began once more to dawn in
the horizon; the brighter, that no letters whatever arrived from him;
even the lawyers who had applied for instructions, received no answer.
The last letter his uncle had had from him, had mentioned the
probability of his joining the Republican forces in the south, if his
health permitted him to do so. Altogether, there certainly were grounds
for anxiety or hope, as it might be; I need not say which it was on this
occasion. Rumours of bloody battles, too, prevailed, in which many had
fallen. Even the creditors were content to wait, not being inclined to
push to extremity a debtor, who might be on the verge of prosperity, for
it was not likely that Louis would make a will; and it was even possible
that he might have died before his uncle. In either case, Alfred was the
undoubted heir; and, accordingly, he began once more to taste some of
the sweets of fortune;--hats were doffed, hands were held out to him,
and one or two sanguine spirits went so far as to offer loans of small
sums and temporary accommodation.

"At length, affairs being in this state of uncertainty, the lawyers
thought it necessary to investigate the matter, and endeavour to
ascertain what was become of the heir. Measures were accordingly taken,
which evidently kept Alfred in a violent state of agitation; but the
result, apparently, made him amends for all he had suffered. It was
proved that Louis, with his military friend, had joined the Republican
forces in the south, but was supposed to have perished in an encounter
with the Chouans; nobody could swear to having seen him dead; but, as
the Republicans had been surprised and fallen into an ambush, they had
been obliged to retreat, leaving their dead upon the field.

"This being the case, the property was given up to Alfred; a portion
being sequestered, in order that it might accumulate for a certain
number of years, for the purpose of refunding the original heir, should
he--contrary to all expectation--reappear. If not, at the expiration of
that term, the sequestrated portion would be released.

"Alfred Zwengler was now at the summit of his wishes; and one might have
thought, would have felt the more intense satisfaction, in the
possession of his wealth, from the narrow escape he had had of losing
it; but this did not seem to be the case. He had, formerly, been very
fond of society, though he had few opportunities of entering into it;
but when he had, nobody enjoyed it more. Now, he did not shun mankind;
on the contrary, he sought their company; but he was moody, silent, and
apparently unhappy. People said, that he lived in constant fear of his
brother's turning up again and reclaiming his inheritance. It might be
so; nobody knew the cause of the change in him, for he was
uncommunicative, even to his nearest acquaintance.

"One thing, that gave colour to this supposition was, that he evidently
disliked to hear Louis named; and whenever he was alluded to, he
invariably asserted that he did not believe he was dead, and that he
expected every day to see him come back. After saying this, it was
observed that, he would turn deathly pale,--rising from his chair, and
walking about the room in manifest agitation.

"Preferring the town to the country, Mr. Zwengler had declared his
intention of residing in his own house, which had lately been repaired
under his special directions, and fitted up with all the appliances of
comfort and elegance; but he was scarcely settled there before he took a
sudden and unaccountable dislike to it, and offered it for sale. As it
was an excellent property, Mr. Geirsteche, my husband's father bought
it; and Mr. Zwengler purchased another house and removed his furniture
thither.

"Mr. Geirsteche had no intention of living in the house; he bought it as
an investment; for being situated in one of the best streets of the
city, it was sure to let well; and accordingly it was not long before
he found an eligible tenent in Mr. Bautte, an eminent watchmaker of
Geneva, who furnished it handsomely. He was very rich, and wanted it for
his family, who expressed themselves delighted with their new residence.
Nevertheless, they had not been in it three months before they expressed
a desire to live in the environs of the city rather than in it. As Mr.
Bautte had taken a long lease of the house, he put up a ticket
announcing that it was to be let. A gentleman from Lucerne, named
Maurice, who had just married his sister's governess, and wished
therefore to reside at a distance from his family, took it for three
years, with the option of keeping it on for whatever term he pleased at
the end of that period. He gave directions for the furnishing, and when
it was ready, they came to Geneva and took up their abode in their new
house. At the end of a year, they applied to Mr. Bautte for permission
to sub-let the house. There was no such provision in the agreement, and
Mr. Bautte at first, we were told, objected, but consented after an
interview with Mr. Maurice. But these frequent removals had begun to
draw observation, and it began to be rumoured that there was something
objectionable about the Hôtel du Pont. The common people whispered that
it was haunted; some said it was infested with rats; others that it was
ill drained; in short, it got a bad reputation, and nobody was willing
to take it. Mr. Maurice and his wife, who were gone to Paris for a few
months, and had not yet removed their furniture, being informed of this,
advertised it to be let furnished. So many strangers come to Geneva,
that there is no want of tenants for good furnished houses, and it was
soon engaged by a French family from Dijon. They took it for a year, but
at the end of that time they left it for a residence much inferior in
every respect, and yet more expensive; the rent Mr. Maurice asked being
very moderate.

"I don't know who were the next tenants, but family after family took
the house, for it was a very attractive one, but nobody lived in it
long. When Mr. Maurice's three years had expired, Mr. Bautte bought his
furniture, and continued to let the house furnished. He would have been
glad to sell his lease, which was for thirty years, but nobody was
inclined to buy it.

"I now, said Madame de G. come to that part of the story that concerns
my mother. I have frequently heard the story from her own lips, and
nothing made her so angry as to see people listen to it with
incredulity. My grandfather, Mr. Colman, was, as you are aware, much
given to the pursuit of literature, and as that is one that seldom
brings wealth, his means were somewhat restricted, although he had a
small independance of his own. He had three daughters and two sons, and
when his family had outgrown their childhood, and my mother, who was the
eldest, had attained the age of seventeen, they came to Geneva for the
sake of giving the young people some advantages of education that he
could not afford them in England; besides there was a good deal of
literary society to be had here then, and the place was cheaper than it
is now.

"Having no acquaintance, they applied on their arrival to an agent, who
offered them several houses and L'Hôtel du Pont amongst the number. At
first they were about to decline it as a residence beyond their means;
but when the rent was named, they took it immediately. It was so far the
best house they had seen, and the cheapest, that when the agreement was
signed, they expressed their surprise to the agent, at what appeared the
unreasonable demands of the other proprietors.

"'Why, this house is particularly situated, sir,' said the agent. 'The
gentleman who furnished it was obliged to leave Geneva almost
immediately after he had settled himself here; and he being absent, and
caring more for a good tenant than a high rent, we don't stand out for a
price as people must do when they look to make money by a house.'

"Mr. Colman congratulated himself on his good luck in finding such a
liberal proprietor, and in a few days he and his family were comfortably
established in the Hôtel du Pont. The only difficulty they had found was
in procuring servants. They had one English maid with them, and, at
last, they succeeded in getting two girls as cook and housemaid. The
latter was a German, who had been brought there by a family who had gone
on to Italy; and the former was a Frenchwoman, who had married a
gentleman's valet, and had followed him from Paris to Geneva.

"As soon as everything was arranged, they resumed their usual
habits--one of which was, that for an hour or two before they went to
bed the father read aloud to them, in a room they called the library--it
was, in fact, his writing-room--whilst the ladies worked. A few evenings
after they had recommenced this practice, a discussion arose between Mr.
Colman and his eldest daughter, Mary, as to the precise meaning of a
French word, and the dictionary had to be appealed to to decide the
question. Mary said it was in her bed-chamber, and left the room to
fetch it. The library was on the ground-floor, and the staircase was a
broad, handsome one as far as the first flight; it had been made by
Alfred Zwengler when the house was repaired, and there was a wide
landing at the top, the whole being lighted sufficiently for ordinary
purposes by a lamp that hung in the hall. The stairs were very easy of
ascent, and my mother--I mean Mary--for she was afterwards my mother,
who was a lively, active girl, was springing up two steps at a time,
when, to her amazement, she saw a gentleman in uniform standing on the
landing above. She stopt suddenly, but as he did not appear to notice
her, she continued to ascend, concluding it was some stranger, who had
got into the house by mistake, for he did not look a thief; but when she
reached the landing he was gone. She stood at first bewildered. There
were four doors opening into bedrooms, but they were all shut; and after
thinking a moment, she concluded it was the shadow of some cloaks and
hats, and sticks, that were hanging in the hall, that had deceived her.
She did not pause to consider how this could be, but turned into her own
room; felt for the book, which she remembered to have left on her bed
and ran down stairs again to her father; so occupied with the disputed
question, that for the moment she forgot what had happened, and as her
father resumed his reading immediately, she did not mention it. When
they were going to bed, and they were lighting their candles in the
hall, she said, 'you can't think what a start I had this evening when I
went for the dictionary. It must have been the shadow of those cloaks
and things, but I could have declared I saw an officer in uniform
standing at the top of the stairs. I even saw his epaulette and the
colour of his clothes.'

"'La! Mary,' said one of the younger ones, 'weren't you frightened?'

"'Frightened! no, why should I be frightened at a shadow?'

"'Or a handsome young officer either,' said one of the boys.

"She playfully gave him a tap on the head, and they all went to bed,
thinking no more of the matter.

"The kitchen was at the back of the house, on the same floor as the
library, and a few evenings after this occurrence, one of the girls
being in the store-room, heard sounds of distress proceeding thence; and
on opening the kitchen-door, to inquire what was the matter, she saw
Jemima, the English girl, in hysterics, and the other two standing over
her, sprinkling her face with water. They said that she had left the
kitchen to fetch some worsted to mend her master's stockings, but that
before she could have got up stairs, she had rushed back again, thrown
herself into a chair, and '_gone off_' as they expressed it. On hearing
the noise, Mr. and Mrs. Colman joined them, but, for a long time, they
could extract nothing from her--but that she had seen _something_. My
grandfather asked if it was a rat, or a robber! but she only shook her
head; and it was not till they had all left the kitchen and sent her a
glass of wine, that she was sufficiently collected to tell them that, as
she got to the foot of the stairs, she saw an officer in uniform, going
up before her. He had his cap in his hand, and his sword at his side;
and supposing he was some friend of her master's, she was going to
follow him up; but when he reached the landing, to her surprise and
horror, he disappeared through the wall.

"When the family heard this, combining it with what had happened to
Mary--though the circumstance had never been mentioned in the hearing of
the servants; nor, indeed, even alluded to a second time--they began to
ask themselves whether it was possible any such person could get into
the house? and they examined every part of it with care, but found
nothing that threw a light on the mystery. After this, Jemima was afraid
to go up stairs alone at night, and Gretchen shared her fears; but the
Frenchwoman laughed at them both, and said she should like to see a
ghost that would frighten her. One night, however, about nine o'clock,
when the family were in the library, they suddenly heard a great noise
upon the stairs, as if something had fallen from the top to the bottom,
and when they all rushed out to see what was the matter, they found the
cook lying across the lower step in a state of insensibility, and the
coalscuttle upset beside her, with its contents scattered around. They
carried her into the library, and when she revived, she insisted on
immediately leaving the house; she would not sleep in it another night
on any account whatever, and away she went. Gretchen and Jemima said,
they were sure she had seen the ghost, but was too proud to own it,
after turning their fears into ridicule; and the family began to be very
much perplexed.

"My grandfather had a truly philosophical mind, and did not think it a
proof of wisdom to hold decided opinions on subjects that he had not
investigated. He had never believed in spiritual appearances, but he had
never thought seriously on the subject at all, and did not feel himself
qualified to assert that such things were impossible. Certainly, it was
a singular coincidence, that Jemima's description of the apparition
exactly coincided with what my mother had seen; and though the
Frenchwoman had confessed to nothing, yet it was at the same hour and
the same place that she had taken fright. He tried, whether--by placing
the cloaks and the lamp in certain relative positions--he could produce
any reflection that might deceive the eye; but there was not the most
remote approximation to such a thing; in short, he perceived that that
explanation of the appearance was altogether inadmissible.

"'Well,' he said, 'if anybody sees this figure again, I beg they will
call me!'

"They were not a nervous family, I suppose; my mother was quite the
reverse, I know. I never saw anybody with more courage; at all events,
they do not seem to have been alarmed, though both the boys afterwards
saw the same figure on the same spot, and ran to call their father; but
when Mr. Colman came it was gone. However, they declared they had seen
it cross the landing; and that it had seemed to them, to walk through
the wall, just as Jemima had described.

"Some weeks after this, towards the same hour, as Mr. Colman was about
to commence reading aloud, he discovered that he had left his
spectacles in the pocket of his coat, when he dressed for dinner; and my
mother, who was always alert and active, left the room to fetch them.
Presently, she re-entered the room,--pale, and somewhat agitated, but
perfectly collected; and said, that when she had ascended the stairs
about half-way, she heard a slight rustle above, which caused her to
raise her eyes; when she saw, distinctly, the same figure she had seen
before. 'I was not frightened!' she said, 'and I stopt with one foot on
the next stair, and looked at it steadily, that I might be sure I was
not under a delusion. The face was pale, and it looked at me with such a
sad expression, that I thought if it was really a ghost, it might wish
to say something; so I asked it.'

"'Asked it!' they all exclaimed. 'What did you say?'

"'I said, if you have anything to communicate, I conjure you--speak!'

"'And did it.'

"'No,' answered Mary, 'but it made a sign--'

"'Good Heavens!' said Mrs. Colman, 'do you know what you're saying?'

"'Perfectly,' said Mary, calmly. 'With one hand it pointed to the
wall--just where Jemima and the boys saw it go in--and with the other it
made a movement, as if it was going to strike the wall with something
heavy.'

"'Perhaps there's some money buried there,' said one of the boys.

"Mr. Colman, who had hitherto been a silent but amazed listener to his
daughter's narration, asked her what the gesture appeared to signify.

"'It was as if it wanted the wall to be pulled down--at least, I thought
so. I wish I had asked if that was what it wished, but I had not
presence of mind; if I see it again, I will.'

"'But we could not pull down the wall, you know, my dear,' said Mrs.
Colman.

"'I suppose we might, if we engaged to build it up again,' suggested one
of the party.

"'But if we told anybody, we should not get the money,' said the boys.

"'Hush!' said Mary, 'Don't speak in that way; think what a solemn thing
it is. I shall never forget his face--never, to the day of my death; and
it looked at me so gratefully when I spoke to it, and then it
disappeared into the wall.'

"Of course this extraordinary occurrence formed the subject of
conversation for the rest of the evening, and Mr. Colman narrowly
questioned his daughter with regard to the particulars; but her story
was always consistent, and as he had a very high opinion of Mary's
courage and sense, the circumstance made so much impression on him, that
he set about making enquiries as to the owner and antecedents of the
house. It was difficult to obtain much information--for saying a house
is haunted, is an injury to the landlord, and sometimes brings people
into trouble--but he ascertained that it had had several tenants, that
nobody had staid in it long, and that one of the persons who had
inhabited it for a short time, was Mr. Bautte himself, whereupon he
resolved to pay him a visit.

"Mr. Bautte, as I have mentioned, was a watchmaker; and though very rich,
still attended to his trade, so that it was easy to obtain an interview
with him. Mr. Colman called at his place of business, which was not a
shop, but a room on the first floor of a private house. He asked about
the engraving of a seal that he had to his watch-chain; and then, having
ascertained which was Mr. B., he told him he was his tenant. Mr. B.
bowed and said, 'I hope you like the house, sir.'

"My grandfather said that, perhaps, he might not have observed it but
for what had happened, but that he fancied this was said with a sort of
misgiving, as if he was conscious that there was something objectionable
about the house.

"'Why,' said my grandfather, drawing him rather aside, 'I like the house
very much; but there's one great inconvenience about it--we can't get
any servants to stay with us. One has left us already, and the others
have given us warning, and nobody seems willing to come in their places.
I understand you lived in the house yourself a short time; may I ask if
you found any similar difficulty?'

"'Well, sir,' said Mr. Bautte, trying to look unconcerned, 'you are
aware how ignorant and foolish such people are--I fancy from the
construction of the house that the sounds from the next door penetrate
the walls.'

"'We hear no sounds,' said Mr. Colman. 'I have heard no complaints of
any. Did any of your family ever say they saw anything extraordinary
there?'

"'Well, sir, since you put the question so directly, I can't deny that
the female part of my family did assert something of the sort; but women
have generally a tendency to superstition, and are easily terrified.'

"'Very true,' said Mr. Colman, 'but I should take it as a great favour
if you would tell me what they said they saw--I have no idea of leaving
the house; you need not be afraid of that; and of course I shall not
mention this conversation to any one--what did they say they saw?'

"Mr. Bautte thus exhorted, confessed that his family, and everybody who
had lived in the house, asserted that they had seen the apparition of a
young man in uniform, who always appeared on the stairs or the landing;
adding, that he himself had never seen it, although he had put himself
in the way of it repeatedly, and he firmly believed it was some
extraordinary delusion or optical deception, though it was impossible to
account for its affecting so many persons in the same way.

"My grandfather then told him what had occurred in his family;
especially to his eldest daughter, in whose testimony, he assured Mr.
Bautte, he placed the greatest reliance; and he ventured to propose an
examination of the spot, where the figure was said invariably to
disappear. At first, Mr. Bautte laughed at the idea; for--besides his
scepticism, which made him unwilling to take any proceeding that
countenanced what he considered an absurd superstition--he urged, that
the staircase and landing in question, were of very recent erection,
being one of Mr. Zwengler's improvements when he repaired the house.
However, after a short argument, wherein my grandfather represented that
nobody but the parties concerned need know the real reason for what they
did, that the expense would be small, and the possible result beneficial
to the property, Mr. Bautte consented, provided Mr. Geierstecke made no
objection; he being still the owner of the house.

"Mr. G., who, you know, was my husband's father, was aware that the
Hôtel du Pont had frequently changed its tenants, but was quite ignorant
of the cause. He had no immediate interest in the matter, as Mr. Bautte
held a thirty-years lease, and he naturally assumed that these frequent
changes were purely accidental. Everybody, who became acquainted with
the house, had a strong motive for keeping the secret; for--besides the
ridicule and penalty they might have incurred--they all wanted to get it
off their hands. It's true, that amongst the servants and common people
of the neighbourhood, there were strange whispers going about; the
source of which it would not have been easy to trace. A glazier said he
knew a man, who had heard another declare, that he was acquainted with a
bricklayer, who had helped to build the staircase; who used to say, he
did not wonder that nobody could live in the Hôtel du Pont; and that it
was his opinion that nobody ever would be able to live in it; and a
woman who kept a shop opposite, had been heard to say, that she saw
somebody go into that house that never came out again; but whenever she
alluded to this subject, her husband always reproved her, and told her
she did not know what she was talking about.

"This gossip had, however, never reached Mr. Geierstecks, and he was
exceedingly surprised when Mr. Bautte communicated Mr. Colman's
proposal, and the reason of it. He immediately called upon my
grandfather, who recited the circumstances to him, and introduced my
mother; from whose lips he wished to hear the account of her two
rencontres with the ghost; and also, a particular description of its
appearance. At the commencement of his visit, he was inclined to be
jocular on the subject; but after he had seen my mother, and heard her
describe the dress of the apparition, which was that of an officer in
the Republican army of France, he seemed a good deal struck, and became
serious. He said, he did not believe in ghosts; though he had heard
people affirm, that they had seen such things; he always supposed them
to be under a delusion; but that my mother's testimony was so clear, and
from the account of her family she was so unlikely a person to be
deceived, that he felt bound to give his assent to the proposed
investigation; only stipulating for entire secrecy, and that he might
fix the day for it himself. 'I'll speak to a builder,' said he; 'Mr.
Bautte, of course, will wish to be present; and, perhaps, I may bring a
friend with me.'

"As I mentioned before, he had been early acquainted with the
Zwengler's; and betwixt him and Alfred the intimacy still continued,
although the latter was by no means the pleasant companion he had been
formerly. Mr. Geierstecke concluding that his uncle's will, and the
sudden vicissitudes of fortune he had experienced, had affected his
spirits, pitied him; and had often endeavoured to argue him out of his
depression, but with little effect.

"I have heard him say, that after he left my grandfather's house on that
day, he went to Mr. Zwengler's with the intention of telling him the
circumstances I have related, and also of giving him notice of the
impending investigation; but when he had got to the door, and his hand
was upon the bell, he shrunk from the interview. 'Not,' he said, 'that
he admitted a suspicion; on the contrary, he repelled it; but he could
not overcome an uneasy feeling at the striking resemblance between Louis
Zwengler and the ghost (if ghost there was), as described by my mother.
He feared that, if his words did not betray this feeling, his
countenance would, and he could not face Alfred in this state of mind;
so he turned from the door and went home. Still he felt he could not
allow this thing to be done without warning his friend of their
intention, and he sat down to write him a letter; but it was a difficult
thing to communicate,--at least, he somehow found it so. He could have
mentioned it jocularly; but that, under all the circumstances, he could
not do so; and he had torn up two or three unsuccessful efforts, when
the door opened, and the servant announced Mr. Zwengler himself.

"My father-in-law told me that he felt his knees tremble, and his cheek
turn pale, when he rose to receive his visitor, who seemingly rather
more cheerful than usual, said he had called to ask him why he did not
come in to-day, when he was at his door. 'I was at the window,' said he,
'and was quite disappointed to see you turn away.'

"This was too good an opportunity to be lost, and Mr. Geierstecke
answered, that it was quite true, and that he had actually had his hand
upon the bell, when he thought it was useless troubling him with such
nonsense.

"'What nonsense?' asked Zwengler.

"'It's about that house I bought of you,' said Mr. Geierstecke. 'People
say they can't live in it;' adding, while he affected to laugh; 'They
say there's a ghost in it, and they want to pull down the staircase to
look for him.'

"'How absurd,' said Mr. Zwengler; 'and are you going to do it?' but the
voice sounded as if there was something in his throat.

"'We are,' replied Mr. G. 'Mr. Bautte has never been able to keep a
tenant, and I can't refuse, for it appears they all assert the same
thing. Even Mr. Bautte's family would not live in it--they say they
see----'

"'Ha! ha!' laughed Zwengler, rising suddenly, and pushing back his chair
in a hurried manner, 'but I must leave you--I've an appointment; I
merely called as I passed the door, to ask why you'd not come in. Bless
me! I'm late,' he added, as he looked at his watch; and he hurried out
of the room, crying 'Good night,' as he disappeared.

"Mr. Geierstecke used to say that he believed that he (Mr. G. himself)
continued standing on the same spot, like a statue, for nearly half an
hour after the door closed on his visitor.

"'I had scarcely had time to rise from my chair,' he said, 'before he
was gone, and I felt paralysed. I did not know what to do. I wished I
had never bought the house, and I lay awake all night, thinking of
horrors, and then trying to persuade myself that perhaps there was no
cause for my apprehensions after all.'

"'I saw nothing more of Zwengler, though I frequently passed his house
purposely; and, at length, the day arrived which I had--not without
design--fixed at the interval of a week from my first visit to Mr.
Colman. We all assembled at the appointed time, with a respectable
workman whom I was in the habit of employing, to whom we accounted for
our proceeding, by alleging that there was a bad smell sometimes, which
we thought might proceed from a dead rat.

"'I never felt more nervous and agitated in my life, than while the man
was demolishing the wall, and we were waiting the denouement; while
Mary, the heroine, stood pale and earnest, with her eyes eagerly fixed
on the spot.'

"'We had better have a light, sir,' said the mason presently, 'There is
something here----'

"One of the boys went for a light, while silent and breathless they
waited its arrival.

"When it came it disclosed a fearful sight. There lay, huddled up, as if
thrust in in haste, the bones of a perfect skeleton, and what appeared
to be burnt remnants of clothes. Before they touched anything, Mr.
Bautte sent for the police, and these sad relics were removed by their
officers. There was no means of discovering how life had been taken, but
the medical men said that some strong chemical preparation had been used
to consume the flesh and clothes, and prevent any bad odour.

"Everybody knew the Zwenglers and their history; and on this discovery,
the prefêt sent for my mother, and took her deposition as to the
appearance of the figure she had seen. He also examined Jemima and the
Frenchwoman who had left our service; and the testimony of all parties
coinciding, he issued an order to arrest Alfred. But when they went to
his house he was not there. The servants said he had been absent nearly
a week; that he left, saying he was going on business to Dôle, and his
stay was uncertain. He had taken no baggage with him but a carpet bag. A
messenger was despatched to Dôle, but nothing was known of him there;
and the enquiries that were instituted at the Messageries and
Voituriers threw no light on his mode of conveyance, if, indeed, he had
left Geneva.

"Various people, who had lived in the house, now confessed to have been
troubled with the same apparition; and several amongst the neighbours of
the lower ranks avowed that they had strong suspicions that Alfred
Zwengler did not come fairly by his fortune, alleging different reasons
for their opinion; one of which was singular--it was, that a little deaf
and dumb girl, who lived near him, described to her mother, that when he
passed their door, she always saw him as enveloped in a black cloud.

"Howbeit, Alfred Zwengler never appeared more; and it was generally
thought that terrified by the impending disclosure he had thrown himself
either into the lake or the river, to escape it. He left no will, and
the fortune went to his sisters. But this strange circumstance resulted
in my mother's marriage to Monsieur de Beaugarde the Prefect, who was so
captivated by her courage, that he made her an offer immediately; and
the acquaintance with Mr. Geierstecke, thus commenced, led to my
marriage with his son."

In answer to my enquiry, of how it was supposed the murder was
committed, Madame de G. said, the conjecture was, that Louis had made
his escape from the Chouans, and returned unexpectedly--a neighbour even
testified to having seen him enter the house one night at the time it
was under repair--and that his brother by a sudden and dreadful impulse,
had struck him down unawares. One of the masons who had been employed in
building the staircase, but who was killed by a fall shortly before the
discovery, had been heard to hint that before he died he must unburden
his mind of a secret that weighed heavily on his conscience. "Not that
the guilt lies on my soul, he used to say, but perhaps it's a sin to
hold my tongue."

However, he had no time to speak; but one came from the grave to tell
the tale and bear awful witness against the unhappy Alfred Zwengler.
