A SPIRIT’S RETURN.

    “This is to be a mortal.
    And seek the things beyond mortality!” Manfred.

    Thy voice prevails--dear friend, my gentle friend!
    This long-shut heart for thee shall be unseal’d;
    And though thy soft eye mournfully will bend
    Over the troubled stream, yet once reveal’d
    Shall its freed waters flow; then rocks must close
    For evermore, above their dark repose.

    Come while the gorgeous mysteries of the sky
    Fused in the crimson sea of sunset lie;
    Come to the woods, where all strange wandering sound
    Is mingled into harmony profound;
    Where the leaves thrill with spirit, while the wind
    Fills with a viewless being, unconfined,
    The trembling reeds and fountains. Our own dell,
    With its green dimness and Æolian breath,
    Shall suit th’ unveiling of dark records well--
    Hear me in tenderness and silent faith!

    Thou knew’st me not in life’s fresh vernal morn--
    I would thou hadst!--for then my heart on thine
    Had pour’d a worthier love; now, all o’erworn
    By its deep thirst for something too divine,
    It hath but fitful music to bestow,
    Echoes of harp-strings broken long ago.

    Yet even in youth companionless I stood,
    As a lone forest-bird midst ocean’s foam;
    For me the silver cords of brotherhood
    Were early loosed; the voices from my home
    Pass’d one by one, and melody and mirth
    Left me a dreamer by a silent hearth.

    But, with the fulness of a heart that burn’d
    For the deep sympathies of mind, I turn’d
    From that unanswering spot, and fondly sought
    In all wild scenes with thrilling murmurs fraught,
    In every still small voice and sound of power,
    And flute-note of the wind through cave and bower,
    A perilous delight!--for then first woke
    My life’s lone passion, the mysterious quest
    Of secret knowledge; and each tone that broke
    From the wood-arches or the fountain’s breast,
    Making my quick soul vibrate as a lyre,
    But minister’d to that strange inborn fire.

    Midst the bright silence of the mountain dells,
    In noontide-hours or golden summer-eves,
    My thoughts have burst forth as a gale that swells
    Into a rushing blast, and from the leaves
    Shakes out response. O thou rich world unseen!
    Thou curtain’d realm of spirits!--thus my cry
    Hath troubled air and silence--dost thou lie
    Spread all around, yet by some filmy screen
    Shut from us ever? The resounding woods,
    Do their depths teem with marvels?--and the floods,
    And the pure fountains, leading secret veins
    Of quenchless melody through rock and hill,
    Have they bright dwellers?--are their lone domains
    Peopled with beauty, which may never still
    _Our_ weary thirst of soul? Cold, weak and cold,
    Is earth’s vain language, piercing not one fold
    Of our deep being! Oh, for gifts more high!
    For a seer’s glance to rend mortality!
    For a charm’d rod, to call from each dark shrine
    The oracles divine!
    I woke from those high fantasies, to know
    My kindred with the earth--I woke to love.
    O gentle friend! to love in doubt and woe,
    Shutting the heart the worshipp’d name above,
    Is to love deeply; and _my_ spirit’s dower
    Was a sad gift, a melancholy power
    Of so adoring--with a buried care,
    And with the o’erflowing of a voiceless prayer,
    And with a deepening dream, that day by day,
    In the still shadow of its lonely sway,
    Folded me closer, till the world held naught
    Save the _one_ being to my centred thought.
    There was no music but his voice to hear,
    No joy but such as with _his_ step drew near;
    Light was but where he look’d--life where he moved:
    Silently, fervently, thus, thus I loved.
    Oh! but such love is fearful!--and I knew
    Its gathering doom: the soul’s prophetic sight
    Even then unfolded in my breast, and threw
    O’er all things round a full, strong, vivid light,
    Too sorrowfully clear!--an under-tone
    Was given to Nature’s harp, for me alone
    Whispering of grief. Of grief?--be strong, awake!
    Hath not thy love been victory, O my soul?
    Hath not its conflict won a voice to shake
    Death’s fastnesses?--a magic to control
    Worlds far removed?--from o’er the grave to thee
    Love hath made answer; and _thy_ tale should be
    Sung like a lay of triumph! Now return
    And take thy treasure from its bosom’d urn,
    And lift it once to light!

                                In fear, in pain,
    I said I loved--but yet a heavenly strain
    Of sweetness floated down the tearful stream,
    A joy flash’d through the trouble of my dream!
    I knew myself beloved! We breathed no vow,
    No mingling visions might our fate allow,
    As unto happy hearts; but still and deep,
    Like a rich jewel gleaming in a grave,
    Like golden sand in some dark river’s wave,
    So did my soul that costly knowledge keep,
    So jealously!--a thing o’er which to shed,
    When stars alone beheld the drooping head,
    Lone tears! yet ofttimes burden’d with the excess
    Of our strange nature’s quivering happiness.

    But, oh! sweet friend! we dream not of love’s might
    Till death has robed with soft and solemn light
    The image we enshrine! Before _that_ hour,
    We have but glimpses of the o’ermastering power
    Within us laid!--_then_ doth the spirit-flame
    With sword-like lightning rend its mortal frame;
    The wings of that which pants to follow fast
    Shake their clay-bars, as with a prison’d blast--
    The sea is in our souls!

                         He died--_he_ died
    On whom my lone devotedness was cast!
    I might not keep one vigil by his side,
    _I_, whose wrung heart watch’d with him to the last!
    I might not once his fainting head sustain,
    Nor bathe his parch’d lips in the hour of pain,
    Nor say to him, “Farewell!” He pass’d away--
    Oh! had _my_ love been there, its conquering sway
    Had won him back from death! But thus removed,
    Borne o’er th’ abyss no sounding line hath proved,
    Join’d with the unknown, the viewless--he became
    Unto my thoughts another, yet the same--
    Changed--hallow’d--glorified!--and his low grave
    Seem’d a bright mournful altar--mine, all mine:
    Brother and friend soon left me _that_ sole shrine,
    The birthright of the faithful!--_their_ world’s wave
    Soon swept them from its brink. Oh! deem thou not
    That on the sad and consecrated spot
    My soul grew weak! I tell thee that a power
    There kindled heart and lip--a fiery shower
    My words were made--a might was given to prayer,
    And a strong grasp to passionate despair,
    And a dread triumph! Know’st thou what I sought?
    For what high boon my struggling spirit wrought?
    --Communion with the dead! I sent a cry
    Through the veil’d empires of eternity--
    A voice to cleave them! By the mournful truth,
    By the lost promise of my blighted youth.
    By the strong chain a mighty love can bind
    On the beloved, the spell of mind o’er mind;
    By words, which in themselves are magic high,
    Armed, and inspired, and wing’d with agony;
    By tears, which comfort not, but burn, and seem
    To bear the heart’s blood in their passion-stream;
    I summon’d, I adjured!--with quicken’d sense,
    With the keen vigil of a life intense.
    I watch’d, an answer from the winds to wring,
    I listen’d, if perchance the stream might bring
    Token from worlds afar; I taught _one_ sound
    Unto a thousand echoes--one profound
    Imploring accent to the tomb, the sky--
    One prayer to night--“Awake! appear! reply!”
    Hast thou been told that from the viewless bourne
    The dark way never hath allow’d return?
    That all, which tears can move, with life is fled--
    That earthly love is powerless on the dead?
    Believe it not!--There is a large lone star
    Now burning o’er yon western hill afar,
    And under its clear light there lies a spot
    Which well might utter forth--Believe it not!

    I sat beneath that planet. I had wept
    My woe to stillness; every night-wind slept;
    A hush was on the hills; the very streams
    Went by like clouds, or noiseless founts in dreams;
    And the dark tree o’ershadowing me that hour,
    Stood motionless, even as the gray church-tower
    Whereon I gazed unconsciously. There came
    A low sound, like the tremor of a flame,
    Or like the light quick shiver of a wing,
    Flitting through twilight woods, across the air;
    And I look’d up! Oh! for strong words to bring
    Conviction o’er thy thought! Before me there,
    He, the departed, stood! Ay, face to face,
    So near, and yet how far! His form, his mien,
    Gave to remembrance back each burning trace
    Within:--Yet something awfully serene,
    Pure, sculpture-like, on the pale brow, that wore
    Of the once beating heart no token more;
    And stillness on the lip--and o’er the hair
    A gleam, that trembled through the breathless air;
    And an unfathom’d calm, that seem’d to lie
    In the grave sweetness of th’ illumined eye,
    Told of the gulfs between our being set,
    And, as that unsheath’d spirit-glance I met,
    Made my soul faint:--with _fear_? Oh! _not_ with fear!
    With the sick feeling that in _his_ far sphere
    _My_ love could be as nothing! But he spoke--
    How shall I tell thee of the startling thrill
    In that low voice, whose breezy tones could fill
    My bosom’s infinite? O friend! I woke
    _Then_ first to heavenly life! Soft, solemn, clear,
    Breathed the mysterious accents on mine ear,
    Yet strangely seem’d as if the while they rose
    From depths of distance, o’er the wide repose
    Of slumbering waters wafted, or the dells
    Of mountains, hollow with sweet echo-cells.
    But, as they murmur’d on, the mortal chill
    Pass’d from me, like a mist before the morn;
    And, to that glorious intercourse upborne
    By slow degrees, a calm, divinely still,
    Possess’d my frame. I sought that lighted eye--
    From its intense and searching purity
    I drank in _soul_!--I question’d of the dead--
    Of the hush’d, starry shores their footsteps tread,
    And I was answer’d. If remembrance there
    With dreamy whispers fill the immortal air;
    If thought, here piled from many a jewel-heap,
    Be treasure in that pensive land to keep;
    If love, o’ersweeping change, and blight, and blast,
    Find _there_ the music of his home at last:
    I ask’d, and I was answer’d. Full and high
    Was that communion with eternity--
    Too rich for aught so fleeting! Like a knell
    Swept o’er my sense its closing words, “Farewell!
    On earth we meet no more!” And all was gone--
    The pale, bright settled brow--the thrilling tone,
    The still and shining eye! and never more
    May twilight gloom or midnight hush restore
    That radiant guest! One full-fraught hour of heaven,
    To earthly passion’s wild implorings given,
    Was made my own--the ethereal fire hath shiver’d
    The fragile censer in whose mould it quiver’d,
    Brightly, consumingly! What now is left?
    A faded world, of glory’s hues bereft--
    A void, a chain! I dwell midst throngs, apart,
    In the cold silence of the stranger’s heart;
    A fix’d immortal shadow stands between
    My spirit and life’s fast-receding scene;
    A gift hath sever’d me from human ties,
    A power is gone from all earth’s melodies,
    Which never may return: their chords are broken,
    The music of another land hath spoken--
    No after-sound is sweet! This weary thirst!
    And I have heard celestial fountains burst!
    What _here_ shall quench it?

                       Dost thou not rejoice,
    When the spring sends forth an awakening voice
    Through the young woods? Thou dost! And in that birth
    Of early leaves, and flowers, and songs of mirth,
    Thousands, like thee, find gladness! Couldst thou know
    How every breeze then summons _me_ to go!
    How all the light of love and beauty shed
    By those rich hours, but woos me to the dead!
    The _only_ beautiful that change no more--
    The only loved!--the dwellers on the shore
    Of spring fulfill’d! The dead! _whom_ call we so?
    They that breathe purer air, that feel, that know
    Things wrapt from us! Away! within me pent,
    That which is barr’d from its own element
    Still droops or struggles! But the day _will_ come--
    Over the deep the free bird finds its home;
    And the stream lingers midst the rocks, yet greets
    The sea at last; and the wing’d flower-seed meets
    A soil to rest in: shall not _I_, too, be,
    My spirit-love! upborne to dwell with thee?
    Yes! by the power whose conquering anguish stirr’d
    The tomb, whose cry beyond the stars was heard,
    Whose agony of triumph won thee back
    Through the dim pass no mortal step may track,
    Yet shall we meet! that glimpse of joy divine
    Proved thee for ever and for ever mine!

 [“It was towards the close of the year 1829, that Mrs Hemans began
 to contemplate the publication of a new volume of poems. She had
 already made some preparation for this by contributing a series of
 lyrics under the title of “Songs of the Affections,” to Blackwood’s
 Magazine, together with the long ballad, “The Lady of Provence,”
 which, for the glowing pictures it contains, the lofty yet tender
 affection to which it is consecrated, and the striking but never
 uncouth changes of its versification, must be considered as one of
 its author’s finest chivalresque poems. She had still, however, to
 produce some work of greater importance than these, suitable for the
 commencement of a volume. The subject at length fixed upon by her, as
 peculiar as it was almost dangerously fascinating, was suggested by
 a fireside conversation. It had long been a favourite amusement to
 wind up our evenings by telling ghost-stories. One night, however,
 the store of thrilling narratives was exhausted, and we began to talk
 of the feelings with which the presence and the speech of a visitant
 from another world, (if indeed a spirit could return,) would be most
 likely to impress the person so visited. After having exhausted all
 the common varieties of fear and terror in our speculations, Mrs
 Hemans said that she thought the predominant sensation at the time
 must partake of awe and rapture, and resemble the feelings of those
 who listen to a revelation, and at the same moment know themselves
 to be favoured above all men, and humbled before a being no longer
 sharing their own cares or passions; but that the person so visited
 must thenceforward and for ever be inevitably separated from this
 world and its concerns: for the soul which had once enjoyed such a
 strange and spiritual communion, which had been permitted to look,
 though but for a moment, beyond the mysterious gates of death, must be
 raised, by its experience, too high for common grief again to perplex,
 or common joy to enliven. She spoke long and eloquently upon this
 subject; and I have reason to believe that this conversation settled
 her wandering fancy, and gave rise to the principal poem in her next
 volume.”--Chorley’s _Memorials of Mrs Hemans_, p. 69-72.

 Mr Chorley, in an after part of the same work, makes the following
 ingenious and suggestive remarks in reference to the same exquisite
 poem:--“The coming of the apparition is described with all the
 plainness and intensity of the most entire conviction, so difficult
 in these days for a writer to assume--might it not almost be said,
 so impossible to be assumed by those who have wholly and scornfully
 cast off those superstitions, so distasteful to reason, but so dear to
 fancy? It is impossible, in reading Sir Walter Scott’s incomparable
 descriptions of supernatural visitations,--the episode of the ‘Bodach
 Glas’ for instance, or ‘Wandering Willie’s tale,’ or the vigil of
 Master Holdenough in the Mirror Chamber, (though this is afterwards
 explained away,)--to imagine that the creator of these scenes did
 not in some measure _believe_ in their possibility, though it might
 be but with a poetical faith. Were it otherwise, they must strike us
 as unnaturally as the recent French revivifications of the antique
 Catholic legends and mysteries--as merely grotesque old fables,
 adopted as studies by clever artists, for the sake of their glaring
 contrasts and effective situations.”--_Memorials_, p. 103.

 In conclusion, we add the comparative estimate formed of this
 production by its author. It is from one of her letters to a friend.
 “Your opinion of the ‘Spirit’s Return’ has given me particular
 pleasure, because I prefer that poem to any thing else I have written;
 but if there be, as my friends say, a greater power in it than I had
 before evinced, I paid dearly for the discovery, and it almost made me
 tremble as I sounded ‘the deep places’ of my soul.”]
