GHOST OF CHARLOTTE CRAY.

Mr. Sigismund Braggett was sitting in the little room he called his
study, wrapped in a profound--not to say a mournful--reverie. Now,
there was nothing in the present life nor surroundings of Mr. Braggett
to account for such a demonstration. He was a publisher and
bookseller; a man well to do, with a thriving business in the city,
and the prettiest of all pretty villas at Streatham. And he was only
just turned forty; had not a grey hair in his head nor a false tooth
in his mouth; and had been married but three short months to one of
the fairest and most affectionate specimens of English womanhood that
ever transformed a bachelor’s quarters into Paradise.

What more could Mr. Sigismund Braggett possibly want? Nothing! His
trouble lay in the fact that he had got rather more than he wanted.
Most of us have our little peccadilloes in this world--awkward
reminiscences that we would like to bury five fathoms deep, and never
hear mentioned again, but that have an uncomfortable habit of cropping
up at the most inconvenient moments; and no mortal is more likely to
be troubled with them than a middle-aged bachelor who has taken to
matrimony.

Mr. Sigismund Braggett had no idea what he was going in for when he
led the blushing Emily Primrose up to the altar, and swore to be hers,
and hers only, until death should them part. He had no conception a
woman’s curiosity could be so keen, her tongue so long, and her
inventive faculties so correct. He had spent whole days before the
fatal moment of marriage in burning letters, erasing initials,
destroying locks of hair, and making offerings of affection look as if
he had purchased them with his own money. But it had been of little
avail. Mrs. Braggett had swooped down upon him like a beautiful bird
of prey, and wheedled, coaxed, or kissed him out of half his secrets
before he knew what he was about. But he had never told her about
Charlotte Cray. And now he almost wished that he had done so, for
Charlotte Cray was the cause of his present dejected mood.

Now, there are ladies _and_ ladies in this world. Some are very shy,
and will only permit themselves to be wooed by stealth. Others, again,
are the pursuers rather than the pursued, and chase the wounded or the
flying even to the very doors of their stronghold, or lie in wait for
them like an octopus, stretching out their tentacles on every side in
search of victims.

And to the latter class Miss Charlotte Cray decidedly belonged. Not a
person worth mourning over, you will naturally say. But, then, Mr.
Sigismund Braggett had not behaved well to her. She was one of the
“peccadilloes.” She was an authoress--not an author, mind you, which
term smacks more of the profession than the sex--but an “authoress,”
with lots of the “ladylike” about the plots of her stories and metre
of her rhymes. They had come together in the sweet connection of
publisher and writer--had met first in a dingy, dusty little office at
the back of his house of business, and laid the foundation of their
friendship with the average amount of chaffering and prevarication
that usually attend such proceedings.

Mr. Braggett ran a risk in publishing Miss Cray’s tales or verses, but
he found her useful in so many other ways that he used occasionally to
hold forth a sop to Cerberus in the shape of publicity for the sake of
keeping her in his employ. For Miss Charlotte Cray--who was as old as
himself, and had arrived at the period of life when women are said to
pray “Any, good Lord, any!”--was really a clever woman, and could turn
her hand to most things required of her, or upon which she had set her
mind; and she had most decidedly set her mind upon marrying Mr.
Braggett, and he--to serve his own purposes--had permitted her to
cherish the idea, and this was the Nemesis that was weighing him down
in the study at the present moment. He had complimented Miss Cray, and
given her presents, and taken her out a-pleasuring, all because she
was useful to him, and did odd jobs that no one else would undertake,
and for less than any one else would have accepted; and he had known
the while that she was in love with him, and that she believed he was
in love with her.

He had not thought much of it at the time. He had not then made up his
mind to marry Emily Primrose, and considered that what pleased Miss
Cray, and harmed no one else, was fair play for all sides. But he had
come to see things differently now. He had been married three months,
and the first two weeks had been very bitter ones to him. Miss Cray
had written him torrents of reproaches during that unhappy period,
besides calling day after day at his office to deliver them in person.
This and her threats had frightened him out of his life. He had lived
in hourly terror lest the clerks should overhear what passed at their
interviews, or that his wife should be made acquainted with them.

He had implored Miss Cray, both by word of mouth and letter, to cease
her persecution of him; but all the reply he received was that he was
a base and perjured man, and that she should continue to call at his
office, and write to him through the penny post, until he had
introduced her to his wife. For therein lay the height and depth of
his offending. He had been afraid to bring Emily and Miss Cray
together, and the latter resented the omission as an insult. It was
bad enough to find that Sigismund Braggett, whose hair she wore next
her heart, and whose photograph stood as in a shrine upon her bedroom
mantelpiece, had married another woman, without giving her even the
chance of a refusal, but it was worse still to come to the conclusion
that he did not intend her to have a glimpse into the garden of Eden
he had created for himself.

Miss Cray was a lady of vivid imagination and strong aspirations. All
was not lost in her ideas, although Mr. Braggett _had_ proved false to
the hopes he had raised. Wives did not live for ever; and the chances
and changes of this life were so numerous, that stranger things had
happened than that Mr. Braggett might think fit to make better use of
the second opportunity afforded him than he had done of the first. But
if she were not to continue even his friend, it was too hard. But the
perjured publisher had continued resolute, notwithstanding all Miss
Cray’s persecution, and now he had neither seen nor heard from her for
a month; and, manlike, he was beginning to wonder what had become of
her, and whether she had found anybody to console her for his untruth.
Mr. Braggett did not wish to comfort Miss Cray himself; but he did not
quite like the notion of her being comforted.

After all--so he soliloquised--he had been very cruel to her; for the
poor thing was devoted to him. How her eyes used to sparkle and her
cheek to flush when she entered his office, and how eagerly she would
undertake any work for him, however disagreeable to perform! He knew
well that she had expected to be Mrs. Braggett, and it must have been
a terrible disappointment to her when he married Emily Primrose.

Why had he not asked her out to Violet Villa since? What harm could
she do as a visitor there? particularly if he cautioned her first as
to the peculiarity of Mrs. Braggett’s disposition, and the quickness
with which her jealousy was excited. It was close upon Christmas-time,
the period when all old friends meet together and patch up, if they
cannot entirely forget, everything that has annoyed them in the past.
Mr. Braggett pictured to himself the poor old maid sitting solitary in
her small rooms at Hammersmith, no longer able to live in the
expectation of seeing his manly form at the wicket-gate, about to
enter and cheer her solitude. The thought smote him as a two-edged
sword, and he sat down at once and penned Miss Charlotte a note, in
which he inquired after her health, and hoped that they should soon
see her at Violet Villa.

He felt much better after this note was written and despatched. He
came out of the little study and entered the cheerful drawing-room,
and sat with his pretty wife by the light of the fire, telling her of
the lonely lady to whom he had just proposed to introduce her.

“An old friend of mine, Emily. A clever, agreeable woman, though
rather eccentric. You will be polite to her, I know, for my sake.”

“An _old_ woman, is she?” said Mrs. Braggett, elevating her eyebrows.
“And what do you call ‘old,’ Siggy, I should like to know?”

“Twice as old as yourself, my dear--five-and-forty at the very least,
and not personable-looking, even for that age. Yet I think you will
find her a pleasant companion, and I am sure she will be enchanted
with you.”

“I don’t know that: clever women don’t like me, as a rule, though I
don’t know why.”

“They are jealous of your beauty, my darling; but Miss Cray is above
such meanness, and will value you for your own sake.”

“She’d better not let me catch her valuing me for _yours_,” responded
Mrs. Braggett, with a flash of the eye that made her husband ready to
regret the dangerous experiment he was about to make of bringing
together two women who had each, in her own way, a claim upon him, and
each the will to maintain it.

So he dropped the subject of Miss Charlotte Cray, and took to admiring
his wife’s complexion instead, so that the evening passed
harmoniously, and both parties were satisfied.

For two days Mr. Braggett received no answer from Miss Cray, which
rather surprised him. He had quite expected that on the reception of
his invitation she would rush down to his office and into his arms,
behind the shelter of the ground-glass door that enclosed his chair of
authority. For Miss Charlotte had been used on occasions to indulge in
rapturous demonstrations of the sort, and the remembrance of Mrs.
Braggett located in Violet Villa would have been no obstacle whatever
to her. She believed she had a prior claim to Mr. Braggett. However,
nothing of the kind happened, and the perjured publisher was becoming
strongly imbued with the idea that he must go out to Hammersmith and
see if he could not make his peace with her in person, particularly as
he had several odd jobs for Christmastide, which no one could
undertake so well as herself, when a letter with a black-edged border
was put into his hand. He opened it mechanically, not knowing the
writing; but its contents shocked him beyond measure.

 “Honoured Sir,--I am sorry to tell you that Miss Cray died at my
 house a week ago, and was buried yesterday. She spoke of you several
 times during her last illness, and if you would like to hear any
 further particulars, and will call on me at the old address, I shall
 be most happy to furnish you with them.--Yours respectfully,

                                               “Mary Thompson.”

When Mr. Braggett read this news, you might have knocked him over with
a feather. It is not always true that a living dog is better than a
dead lion. Some people gain considerably in the estimation of their
friends by leaving this world, and Miss Charlotte Cray was one of
them. Her persecution had ceased for ever, and her amiable weaknesses
were alone held in remembrance. Mr. Braggett felt a positive relief in
the knowledge that his dead friend and his wife would never now be
brought in contact with each other; but at the same time he blamed
himself more than was needful, perhaps, for not having seen nor
communicated with Miss Cray for so long before her death. He came down
to breakfast with a portentously grave face that morning, and imparted
the sad intelligence to Mrs. Braggett with the air of an undertaker.
Emily wondered, pitied, and sympathised, but the dead lady was no more
to her than any other stranger; and she was surprised her husband
looked so solemn over it all. Mr. Braggett, however, could not dismiss
the subject easily from his mind. It haunted him during the business
hours of the morning, and as soon as he could conveniently leave his
office, he posted away to Hammersmith. The little house in which Miss
Cray used to live looked just the same, both inside and outside: how
strange it seemed that _she_ should have flown away from it for ever!
And here was her landlady, Mrs. Thompson, bobbing and curtseying to
him in the same old black net cap with artificial flowers in it, and
the same stuff gown she had worn since he first saw her, with her
apron in her hand, it is true, ready to go to her eyes as soon as a
reasonable opportunity occurred, but otherwise the same Mrs. Thompson
as before. And yet she would never wait upon _her_ again:

“It was all so sudden, sir,” she said, in answer to Mr. Braggett’s
inquiries, “that there was no time to send for nobody.”

“But Miss Cray had my address.”

“Ah! perhaps so; but she was off her head, poor dear, and couldn’t
think of nothing. But she remembered you, sir, to the last; for the
very morning she died, she sprung up in bed and called out,
‘Sigismund! Sigismund!’ as loud as ever she could, and she never spoke
to anybody afterwards, not one word.”

“She left no message for me?”

“None, sir. I asked her the day before she went if I was to say
nothing to you for her (knowing you was such friends), and all her
answer was, ‘I wrote to him. He’s got my letter.’ So I thought,
perhaps, you had heard, sir.”

“Not for some time past. It seems terribly sudden to me, not having
heard even of her illness. Where is she buried?”

“Close by in the churchyard, sir. My little girl will go with you and
show you the place, if you’d like to see it.”

Mr. Braggett accepted her offer and left.

When he was standing by a heap of clods they called a grave, and had
dismissed the child, he drew out Miss Cray’s last letter, which he
carried in his pocket, and read it over.

 “You tell me that I am not to call at your office again, except on
 business” (so it ran), “nor to send letters to your private address,
 lest it should come to the knowledge of your wife, and create
 unpleasantness between you; but I _shall_ call, and I _shall_ write,
 until I have seen Mrs. Braggett, and, if you don’t take care, I will
 introduce myself to her and tell her the reason you have been afraid
 to do so.”

This letter had made Mr. Braggett terribly angry at the time of
reception. He had puffed and fumed, and cursed Miss Charlotte by all
his gods for daring to threaten him. But he read it with different
feelings now Miss Charlotte was down there, six feet beneath the
ground he stood on, and he could feel only compassion for her frenzy,
and resentment against himself for having excited it. As he travelled
home from Hammersmith to Streatham, he was a very dejected publisher
indeed.

He did not tell Mrs. Braggett the reason of his melancholy, but it
affected him to that degree that he could not go to office on the
following day, but stayed at home instead, to be petted and waited
upon by his pretty wife, which treatment resulted in a complete cure.
The next morning, therefore, he started for London as briskly as ever,
and arrived at office before his usual time. A clerk, deputed to
receive all messages for his master, followed him behind the
ground-glass doors, with a packet of letters.

“Mr. Van Ower was here yesterday, sir. He will let you have the copy
before the end of the week, and Messrs. Hanley’s foreman called on
particular business, and will look in to-day at eleven. And Mr. Ellis
came to ask if there was any answer to his letter yet; and Miss Cray
called, sir; and that’s all.”

“_Who_ did you say?” cried Braggett.

“Miss Cray, sir. She waited for you above an hour, but I told her I
thought you couldn’t mean to come into town at all, so she went.”

“Do you know what you’re talking about, Hewetson? You said _Miss
Cray!_”

“And I meant it, sir--Miss Charlotte Cray. Burns spoke to her as well
as I.”

“Good heavens!” exclaimed Mr. Braggett, turning as white as a sheet.
“Go at once and send Burns to me.” Burns came.

“Burns, who was the lady that called to see me yesterday?”

“Miss Cray, sir. She had a very thick veil on, and she looked so pale
that I asked her if she had been ill, and she said ‘Yes.’ She sat in
the office for over an hour, hoping you’d come in, but as you didn’t,
she went away again.”

“Did she lift her veil?”

“Not whilst I spoke to her, sir.”

“How do you know it was Miss Cray, then?”

The clerk stared. “Well, sir, we all know her pretty well by this
time.”

“Did you ask her name?”

“No, sir; there was no need to do it.”

“You’re mistaken, that’s all, both you and Hewetson. It couldn’t have
been Miss Cray! I know for certain that she is--is--is--not in London
at present. It must have been a stranger.”

“It was not, indeed, sir, begging your pardon. I could tell Miss Cray
anywhere, by her figure and her voice, without seeing her face. But I
_did_ see her face, and remarked how awfully pale she was--just like
death, sir!”

“There! there! that will do! It’s of no consequence, and you can go
back to your work.”

But any one who had seen Mr. Braggett, when left alone in his office,
would not have said he thought the matter of no consequence. The
perspiration broke out upon his forehead, although it was December,
and he rocked himself backward and forward in his chair with
agitation.

At last he rose hurriedly, upset his throne, and dashed through the
outer premises in the face of twenty people waiting to speak to him.
As soon as he could find his voice, he hailed a hansom, and drove to
Hammersmith. Good Mrs. Thompson opening the door to him, thought he
looked as if he had just come out of a fever.

“Lor’ bless me, sir! whatever’s the matter?”

“Mrs. Thompson, have you told me the truth about Miss Cray? Is she
really dead?”

“_Really dead_, sir! Why, I closed her eyes, and put her in the coffin
with my own hands! If she ain’t dead, I don’t know who is! But if you
doubt my word, you’d better ask the doctor that gave the certificate
for her.”

“What is the doctor’s name?”

“Dodson; he lives opposite.”

“You must forgive my strange questions, Mrs. Thompson, but I have had
a terrible dream about my poor friend, and I think I should like to
talk to the doctor about her.”

“Oh, very good, sir,” cried the landlady, much offended. “I’m not
afraid of what the doctor will tell you. She had excellent nursing and
everything as she could desire, and there’s nothing on my conscience
on that score, so I’ll wish you good morning.” And with that Mrs.
Thompson slammed the door in Mr. Braggett’s face.

He found Dr. Dodson at home.

“If I understand you rightly,” said the practitioner, looking rather
steadfastly in the scared face of his visitor, “you wish, as a friend
of the late Miss Cray’s, to see a copy of the certificate of her
death? Very good, sir; here it is. She died, as you will perceive, on
the twenty-fifth of November, of peritonitis. She had, I can assure
you, every attention and care, but nothing could have saved her.”

“You are quite sure, then, she is dead?” demanded Mr. Braggett, in a
vague manner.

The doctor looked at him as if he were not quite sure if he were sane.

“If seeing a patient die, and her corpse coffined and buried, is being
sure she is dead, _I_ am in no doubt whatever about Miss Cray.”

“It is very strange--most strange and unaccountable,” murmured poor
Mr. Braggett, in reply, as he shuffled out of the doctor’s passage,
and took his way back to the office.

Here, however, after an interval of rest and a strong brandy and soda,
he managed to pull himself together, and to come to the conclusion
that the doctor and Mrs. Thompson _could_ not be mistaken, and that,
consequently, the clerks _must_. He did not mention the subject again
to them, however; and as the days went on, and nothing more was heard
of the mysterious stranger’s visit, Mr. Braggett put it altogether out
of his mind.

At the end of a fortnight, however, when he was thinking of something
totally different, young Hewetson remarked to him, carelessly,--

“Miss Cray was here again yesterday, sir. She walked in just as your
cab had left the door.”

All the horror of his first suspicions returned with double force upon
the unhappy man’s mind.

“Don’t talk nonsense!” he gasped, angrily, as soon as he could speak.
“Don’t attempt to play any of your tricks on me, young man, or it will
be the worse for you, I can tell you.”

“Tricks, sir!” stammered the clerk. “I don’t know what you are
alluding to. I am only telling you the truth. You have always desired
me to be most particular in letting you know the names of the people
who call in your absence, and I thought I was only doing my duty in
making a point of ascertaining them----”

“Yes, yes! Hewetson, of course,” replied Mr. Braggett, passing his
handkerchief over his brow, “and you are quite right in following my
directions as closely as possible; only--in this case you are
completely mistaken, and it is the second time you have committed the
error.”

“Mistaken!”

“Yes!--as mistaken as it is possible for a man to be! Miss Cray
_could_ not have called at this office yesterday.”

“But she did, sir.”

“Am I labouring under some horrible nightmare?” exclaimed the
publisher, “or are we playing at cross purposes? Can you mean the Miss
Cray I mean?”

“I am speaking of Miss Charlotte Cray, sir, the author of ‘Sweet
Gwendoline,’--the lady who has undertaken so much of our compilation
the last two years, and who has a long nose, and wears her hair in
curls. I never knew there was another Miss Cray; but if there are two,
that is the one I mean.”

“Still I _cannot_ believe it, Hewetson, for the Miss Cray who has been
associated with our firm died on the twenty-fifth of last month.”

“_Died_, sir! Is Miss Cray dead? Oh, it can’t be! It’s some humbugging
trick that’s been played upon you, for I’d swear she was in this room
yesterday afternoon, as full of life as she’s ever been since I knew
her. She didn’t talk much, it’s true, for she seemed in a hurry to be
off again, but she had got on the same dress and bonnet she was in
here last, and she made herself as much at home in the office as she
ever did. Besides,” continued Hewetson, as though suddenly remembering
something, “she left a note for you, sir.”

“A note! Why did you not say so before?”

“It slipped my memory when you began to doubt my word in that way,
sir. But you’ll find it in the bronze vase. She told me to tell you
she had placed it there.”

Mr. Braggett made a dash at the vase, and found the three-cornered
note as he had been told. Yes! it was Charlotte’s handwriting, or the
facsimile of it, there was no doubt of that; and his hands shook so he
could hardly open the paper. It contained these words:

 “You tell me that I am not to call at your office again, except on
 business, nor to send letters to your private address, lest it should
 come to the knowledge of your wife, and create unpleasantness between
 you; but I _shall_ call, and I _shall_ write until I have seen Mrs.
 Braggett, and if you don’t take care I will introduce myself to her,
 and tell her the reason you have been afraid to do so.”

Precisely the same words, in the same writing of the letter he still
carried in his breast pocket, and which no mortal eyes but his and
hers had ever seen. As the unhappy man sat gazing at the opened note,
his whole body shook as if he were attacked by ague.

“It is Miss Cray’s handwriting, isn’t it, sir?”

“It looks like it, Hewetson, but it cannot be. I tell you it is an
impossibility! Miss Cray died last month, and I have seen not only her
grave, but the doctor and nurse who attended her in her last illness.
It is folly, then, to suppose either that she called here or wrote
that letter.”

“Then _who could it have been_, sir?” said Hewetson, attacked with a
sudden terror in his turn.

“That is impossible for me to say; but should the lady call again, you
had better ask her boldly for her name and address.”

“I’d rather you’d depute the office to anybody but me, sir,” replied
the clerk, as he hastily backed out of the room.

Mr. Braggett, dying with suspense and conjecture, went through his
business as best he could, and hurried home to Violet Villa.

There he found that his wife had been spending the day with a friend,
and only entered the house a few minutes before himself.

“Siggy, dear!” she commenced, as soon as he joined her in the
drawing-room after dinner; “I really think we should have the
fastenings and bolts of this house looked to. Such a funny thing
happened whilst I was out this afternoon. Ellen has just been telling
me about it.”

“What sort of a thing, dear?”

“Well, I left home as early as twelve, you know, and told the servants
I shouldn’t be back until dinner-time; so they were all enjoying
themselves in the kitchen, I suppose, when cook told Ellen she heard a
footstep in the drawing-room. Ellen thought at first it must be cook’s
fancy, because she was sure the front door was fastened; but when they
listened, they all heard the noise together, so she ran upstairs, and
what on earth do you think she saw?”

“How can I guess, my dear?”

“Why, a lady, seated in this very room, as if she was waiting for
somebody. She was oldish, Ellen says, and had a very white face, with
long curls hanging down each side of it; and she wore a blue bonnet
with white feathers, and a long black cloak, and--”

“Emily, Emily! Stop! You don’t know what you’re talking about. That
girl is a fool: you must send her away. That is, how could the lady
have got in if the door was closed? Good heavens! you’ll all drive me
mad between you with your folly!” exclaimed Mr. Braggett, as he threw
himself back in his chair, with an exclamation that sounded very like
a groan.

Pretty Mrs. Braggett was offended. What had she said or done that her
husband should doubt her word? She tossed her head in indignation, and
remained silent. If Mr. Braggett wanted any further information, he
would have to apologise.

“Forgive me, darling,” he said, after a long pause. “I don’t think I’m
very well this evening, but your story seemed to upset me.”

“I don’t see why it should upset you,” returned Mrs. Braggett. “If
strangers are allowed to come prowling about the house in this way, we
shall be robbed some day, and then you’ll say I should have told you
of it.”

“Wouldn’t she--this person--give her name?”

“Oh! I’d rather say no more about it. You had better ask Ellen.”

“No, Emily! I’d rather hear it from you.”

“Well, don’t interrupt me again, then. When Ellen saw the woman seated
here, she asked her her name and business at once, but she gave no
answer, and only sat and stared at her. And so Ellen, feeling very
uncomfortable, had just turned round to call up cook, when the woman
got up, and dashed past her like a flash of lightning, and they saw
nothing more of her!”

“Which way did she leave the house?”

“Nobody knows any more than how she came in. The servants declare the
hall door was neither opened nor shut--but, of course, it must have
been. She was a tall gaunt woman, Ellen says, about fifty, and she’s
sure her hair was dyed. She must have come to steal something, and
that’s why I say we ought to have the house made more secure. Why,
Siggy! Siggy! what’s the matter? Here, Ellen! Jane! come, quick, some
of you! Your master’s fainted!”

And, sure enough, the repeated shocks and horrors of the day had had
such an effect upon poor Mr. Braggett, that for a moment he did lose
all consciousness of what surrounded him. He was thankful to take
advantage of the Christmas holidays, to run over to Paris with his
wife, and try to forget, in the many marvels of that city, the awful
fear that fastened upon him at the mention of anything connected with
home. He might be enjoying himself to the top of his bent; but
directly the remembrance of Charlotte Cray crossed his mind, all sense
of enjoyment vanished, and he trembled at the mere thought of
returning to his business, as a child does when sent to bed in the
dark.

He tried to hide the state of his feelings from Mrs. Braggett, but she
was too sharp for him. The simple, blushing Emily Primrose had
developed, under the influence of the matrimonial forcing-frame, into
a good watch-dog, and nothing escaped her notice.

Left to her own conjecture, she attributed his frequent moods of
dejection to the existence of some other woman, and became jealous
accordingly. If Siggy did not love her, why had he married her? She
felt certain there was some other horrid creature who had engaged his
affections and would not leave him alone, even now that he was her own
lawful property. And to find out who the “horrid creature” was became
Mrs. Emily’s constant idea. When she had found out, she meant to give
her a piece of her mind, never fear! Meanwhile Mr. Braggett’s evident
distaste to returning to business only served to increase his wife’s
suspicions. A clear conscience, she argued, would know no fear. So
they were not a happy couple, as they set their faces once more
towards England. Mr. Braggett’s dread of re-entering his office
amounted almost to terror, and Mrs. Braggett, putting this and that
together, resolved that she would fathom the mystery, if it lay in
feminine _finesse_ to do so. She did not whisper a word of her
intentions to dear Siggy, you may be sure of that! She worked after
the manner of her amiable sex, like a cat in the dark, or a worm
boring through the earth, and appearing on the surface when least
expected.

So poor Mr. Braggett brought her home again, heavy at heart indeed,
but quite ignorant that any designs were being made against him. I
think he would have given a thousand pounds to be spared the duty of
attending office the day after his arrival. But it was necessary, and
he went, like a publisher and a Briton. But Mrs. Emily had noted his
trepidation and his fears, and laid her plans accordingly. She had
never been asked to enter those mysterious precincts, the house of
business. Mr. Braggett had not thought it necessary that her blooming
loveliness should be made acquainted with its dingy, dusty
accessories, but she meant to see them for herself to-day. So she
waited till he had left Violet Villa ten minutes, and then she dressed
and followed him by the next train to London.

Mr. Sigismund Braggett meanwhile had gone on his way, as people go to
a dentist, determined to do what was right, but with an indefinite
sort of idea that he might never come out of it alive. He dreaded to
hear what might have happened in his absence, and he delayed his
arrival at the office for half-an-hour, by walking there instead of
taking a cab as usual, in order to put off the evil moment. As he
entered the place, however, he saw at a glance that his efforts were
vain, and that something had occurred. The customary formality and
precision of the office were upset, and the clerks, instead of bending
over their ledgers, or attending to the demands of business, were all
huddled together at one end whispering and gesticulating to each
other. But as soon as the publisher appeared, a dead silence fell upon
the group, and they only stared at him with an air of horrid mystery.

“What is the matter now?” he demanded, angrily, for like most men when
in a fright which they are ashamed to exhibit, Mr. Sigismund Braggett
tried to cover his want of courage by bounce.

The young man called Hewetson advanced towards him, with a face the
colour of ashes, and pointed towards the ground-glass doors dumbly.

“What do you mean? Can’t you speak? What’s come to the lot of you,
that you are neglecting my business in this fashion to make fools of
yourselves?”

“If you please, sir, she’s in there.”

Mr. Braggett started back as if he’d been shot. But still he tried to
have it out.

“_She!_ Who’s _she?_”

“Miss Cray, sir.”

“Haven’t I told you already that’s a lie.”

“Will you judge for yourself, Mr. Braggett?” said a grey-haired man,
stepping forward. “I was on the stairs myself just now when Miss Cray
passed me, and I have no doubt whatever but that you will find her in
your private room, however much the reports that have lately reached
you may seem against the probability of such a thing.”

Mr. Braggett’s teeth chattered in his head as he advanced to the
ground-glass doors, through the panes of one of which there was a
little peephole to ascertain if the room were occupied or not. He
stooped and looked in. At the table, with her back towards him, was
seated the well-known figure of Charlotte Cray. He recognised at once
the long black mantle in which she was wont to drape her gaunt
figure--the blue bonnet, with its dejected-looking, uncurled
feather--the lank curls which rested on her shoulders--and the
black-leather bag, with a steel clasp, which she always carried in her
hand. It was the embodiment of Charlotte Cray, he had no doubt of
that; but how could he reconcile the fact of her being there with the
damp clods he had seen piled upon her grave, with the certificate of
death, and the doctor’s and landlady’s assertion that they had watched
her last moments?

At last he prepared, with desperate energy, to turn the handle of the
door. At that moment the attention of the more frivolous of the clerks
was directed from his actions by the entrance of an uncommonly pretty
woman at the other end of the outer office. Such a lovely creature as
this seldom brightened the gloom of their dusty abiding-place. Lilies,
roses, and carnations vied with each other in her complexion, whilst
the sunniest of locks, and the brightest of blue eyes, lent her face a
girlish charm not easily described. What could this
fashionably-attired Venus want in their house of business?

“Is Mr. Braggett here? I am Mrs. Braggett. Please show me in to him
immediately.”

They glanced at the ground-glass doors of the inner office. They had
already closed behind the manly form of their employer.

“This way, madam,” one said, deferentially, as he escorted her to the
presence of Mr. Braggett.

Meanwhile, Sigismund had opened the portals of the Temple of Mystery,
and with trembling knees entered it. The figure in the chair did not
stir at his approach. He stood at the door irresolute. What should he
do or say?

“Charlotte,” he whispered.

Still she did not move.

At that moment his wife entered.

“Oh, Sigismund!” cried Mrs. Emily, reproachfully, “I knew you were
keeping something from me, and now I’ve caught you in the very act.
Who is this lady, and what is her name? I shall refuse to leave the
room until I know it.”

At the sound of her rival’s voice, the woman in the chair rose quickly
to her feet and confronted them. Yes! there was Charlotte Cray,
precisely similar to what she had appeared in life, only with an
uncertainty and vagueness about the lines of the familiar features
that made them ghastly.

She stood there, looking Mrs. Emily full in the face, but only for a
moment, for, even as she gazed, the lineaments grew less and less
distinct, with the shape of the figure that supported them, until,
with a crash, the apparition seemed to fall in and disappear, and the
place that had known her was filled with empty air.

“Where is she gone?” exclaimed Mrs. Braggett, in a tone of utter
amazement.

“Where is _who_ gone?” repeated Mr. Braggett, hardly able to
articulate from fear.

“The lady in the chair!”

“There was no one there except in your own imagination. It was my
great-coat that you mistook for a figure,” returned her husband
hastily, as he threw the article in question over the back of the
arm-chair.

“But how could that have been?” said his pretty wife, rubbing her
eyes. “How could I think a coat had eyes, and hair, and features? I am
_sure_ I saw a woman seated there, and that she rose and stared at me.
Siggy! tell me it was true. It seems so incomprehensible that I should
have been mistaken.”

“You must question your own sense. You see that the room is empty now,
except for ourselves, and you know that no one has left it. If you
like to search under the table, you can.”

“Ah! now, Siggy, you are laughing at me, because you know that would
be folly. But there was certainly some one here--only, where can she
have disappeared to?”

“Suppose we discuss the matter at a more convenient season,” replied
Mr. Braggett, as he drew his wife’s arm through his arm. “Hewetson!
you will be able to tell Mr. Hume that he was mistaken. Say, also,
that I shall not be back in the office to-day. I am not so strong as I
thought I was, and feel quite unequal to business. Tell him to come
out to Streatham this evening with my letters, and I will talk with
him there.”

What passed at that interview was never disclosed; but pretty Mrs.
Braggett was much rejoiced, a short time afterwards, by her husband
telling her that he had resolved to resign his active share of the
business, and devote the rest of his life to her and Violet Villa. He
would have no more occasion, therefore, to visit the office, and be
exposed to the temptation of spending four or five hours out of every
twelve away from her side. For, though Mrs. Emily had arrived at the
conclusion that the momentary glimpse she caught of a lady in Siggy’s
office must have been a delusion, she was not quite satisfied by his
assertions that she would never have found a more tangible cause for
her jealousy.

But Sigismund Braggett knew more than he chose to tell Mrs. Emily. He
knew that what she had witnessed was no delusion, but a reality; and
that Charlotte Cray had carried out her dying determination to call at
his office and his private residence, _until she had seen his wife!_

 THE INVISIBLE TENANTS OF
 RUSHMERE.

 “On the banks of the Wye, Monmouthshire.--To be Let, furnished, a
 commodious Family Mansion, surrounded with park-like grounds. Stabling
 and every convenience. Only two and a-half miles from station, church,
 and post-office. Excellent fishing to be procured in the
 neighbourhood. Rent nominal to a responsible tenant.”

Such, with a few trifling additions, was the advertisement that caught
my eye in the spring of 18--.

“My dear Jane,” I said, as I handed the paper over to my wife, “this,
I think, is the very thing we want.”

I was a London practitioner, with a numerous family and a large circle
of patients; but the two facts, though blessings in themselves, were
not without their disadvantages.

The hostages which I had given to fortune had made that strenuous
action which attention to my numerous patients supplied incumbent on
me; but the consequent anxiety and want of rest had drawn so largely
on my mental and physical resources, that there was no need for my
professional brethren to warn me of the necessity of change and
country air. I felt myself that I was breaking down, and had already
made arrangements with a friend to take my practice for a few months,
and set me at liberty to attend to my own health. And being
passionately fond of fishing, and all country pleasures and pursuits,
and looking forward with zest to a period of complete quiet, the
residence alluded to (if it fulfilled the promise of its
advertisement) appeared to be all that I could desire.

“Park-like grounds!” exclaimed my wife, with animation. “How the dear
children will enjoy themselves.”

“And two and a-half miles from church or station,” I responded
eagerly. “No neighbours, excellent fishing, and at a nominal rent. It
sounds too good to be true.”

“Oh, Arthur! you must write, and obtain all the particulars this very
day. If you put it off, some one will be sure to take the house before
we have time to do so.”

“I shall go and see the city agents at once,” I replied, resolutely.
“It is too rare an opportunity to be lost. Only, don’t raise your
hopes too high, my dear. Advertisements are apt to be deceptive.”

But when I had seen Messrs. Quibble & Lye on the subject, it really
seemed as though for once they had spoken the truth. Rushmere, the
house in question, had been built and furnished for his own use by an
old gentleman, who died shortly afterwards, and his heirs, not liking
the situation, had placed the property in the agents’ hands for
letting. The owners were wealthy, cared little for money, and had
authorised the agents to let the house on any reasonable terms, and it
was really a bargain to anyone that wanted it. They frankly admitted
that the loneliness of the position of Rushmere was the reason of its
cheapness; but when I heard the rent at which they offered to let me
take it, if approved of, for three months, I was quite ready to agree
with Messrs. Quibble & Lye in their idea of a bargain, and that, for
those who liked solitude, Rushmere offered extraordinary advantages.

Armed with the necessary authority, I found my way down into
Monmouthshire, to inspect the premises on the following day; and when
I saw Rushmere, I felt still more disposed to be surprised at the
opportunity afforded me, and to congratulate myself on the promptitude
with which I had embraced it. I found it to be a good-sized country
house, comfortably furnished, and, to all appearance, well built,
standing in enclosed grounds, and on a healthy elevation; but,
notwithstanding its isolated situation, I was too much a man of the
world to believe, under the circumstances, that its greatest
disadvantage lay in that fact. Accordingly, I peered eagerly about for
damp walls, covered cesspools, unsteady joists, or tottering
foundations, but I could find none.

“The chimneys smoke, I suppose?” I remarked, in a would-be careless
tone, to the old woman whom I found in charge of the house, and who
crept after me wherever I went.

“Chimbleys smoke, sir? Not as I knows of.”

“The roof leaks, perhaps?”

“Deary me, no. You won’t find a spot of damp, look where you may.”

“Then there’s been a fever, or some infectious disorder in the house?”

“A fever, sir? Why, the place has been empty these six months. The
last tenants left at Christmas.”

“Empty for six months!” I exclaimed. “How long is it, then, since the
gentleman who built it died?”

“Old Mr. Bennett, sir? He’s been dead a matter of fifteen years or
more.”

“Indeed! Then why don’t the owners of the place sell it, instead of
letting it stand vacant?” thought I to myself.

But I did not say so to the old woman, who was looking up in my face,
as though anxious to learn what my decision would be.

“No vermin, I hope?” I suggested, as a last resource. “You are not
troubled with rats or mice at night, are you?”

“Oh, I don’t sleep here at night, sir, thank heaven!” she answered in
a manner which appeared to me unnecessarily energetic. “I am only
employed by day to air the house, and show it to strangers. I go home
to my own people at night.”

“And where do your people live?”

“Better than half a mile from here, sir, and ours is the nearest
cottage to Rushmere.”

And then--apprehensive, perhaps, that her information might prove a
drawback to the letting of the property--she added, quickly,--

“Not but what it’s a nice place to live in, is Rushmere, and very
convenient, though a bit lonesome.”

I perfectly agreed with her, the “lonesomeness” of the situation
proving no detraction in my eyes.

On my return to London I gave my wife so glowing a description of the
house and its surroundings, that she urged me to conclude the bargain
at once; and, in the course of a few weeks, I and my family were
transplanted from the purlieus of Bayswater to the banks of the Wye.
It was the middle of May when we took possession, and the country wore
its most attractive garb. The children were wild with delight at being
let loose in the flower-bespangled fields, and, as I watched the
tributaries of the river, and perceived the excellent sport they
promised me, I felt scarcely less excited than the children. Only my
wife, I thought, became inoculated with some of the absurd fears of
the domestics we had brought with us from town, and seemed to consider
the locality more lonely and unprotected than she had expected to find
it.

“It’s a charming place, Arthur,” she acknowledged, “and marvellously
cheap; but it is certainly a long way from other houses. I find we
shall have to send for everything to the town. Not even the country
carts, with butter and poultry, seem to call at Rushmere.”

“My dear Jane, I told you distinctly that it was two and a-half miles
from church or station, and you read it for yourself in the paper. But
I thought we looked out for a retreat where we should run no risk of
being intruded on by strangers.”

“Oh yes, of course; only there are not even any farmhouses or cottages
near Rushmere, you see; and it would be so very easy for anyone to
break in at night, and rob us.”

“Pooh, nonsense! What will you be afraid of next? The locks and bolts
are perfectly secure, and both Dawson and I have firearms, and are
ready to use them. Your fears are childish, Janie.”

But all my arguments were unavailing, and each day my wife grew more
nervous, and less willing to be left alone. So much so, indeed, that I
made a practice of seeing that the house fastenings were properly
secured each night myself, and of keeping a loaded revolver close to
my hand, in case of need. But it damped my pleasure, to find that Jane
was not enjoying herself; and the country looked less beautiful to me
than it had done at first. One night I suddenly awoke, to find that
she was sitting up in bed, and in an attitude of expectation.

“My dear, what is the matter with you?”

“Oh, hush! I am sure that I hear footsteps on the stairs--footsteps
creeping up and down.”

I listened with her, but could detect no sound whatever.

“Lie down again, Jane--it is only your imagination. Every one is fast
asleep in bed.”

“I assure you, Arthur, I am not mistaken. Once they came quite near
the door.”

“If so, it can only be one of the servants. You don’t wish me to get
up and encounter Mary or Susan in her night-dress, do you? Consider my
morals!”

“Oh no, of course not,” she replied with a faint smile; yet it was
some time before she fell to sleep again.

It was not many nights before my wife roused me again with the same
complaint.

“Arthur, don’t call me silly, but I am _certain_ I heard something.”

To appease her fears, I shook off my drowsiness, and, with a lighted
candle, made a tour of the house; but all was as I had left it.

Once, indeed, I imagined that I heard at my side the sound of a quick
breathing; but that I knew must be sheer fancy, since I was alone.

The only circumstance that startled me was finding Dawson, the man
servant, who slept on the ground floor, also awake, and listening at
his door.

“What roused you, Dawson?”

“Well, sir, I can hardly say; but I fancied I heard some one going up
the stairs a little while ago.”

“You heard me coming down, you mean.”

“No, sir, begging your pardon, it was footsteps going up--lighter than
yours, sir. More like those of a woman.”

Yet, though I privately interrogated the female servants on the
following day, I could not discover that any of them had been out of
their beds; and I forbore to tell my wife what Dawson had said in
corroboration of her statement.

Only I was as much annoyed as astonished when, as I finished my
catechism of Mary, our head nurse, she informed me that she had made
up her mind to leave our service. Mary--my wife’s right hand--who had
been with us ever since the birth of our first child! The announcement
took me completely aback.

“What on earth is your reason for leaving us?” I demanded angrily; for
I knew what a blow her decision would be to Jane. “What have you to
find fault with?”

“Nothing with you or the mistress, sir; but I can’t remain in this
house. I wouldn’t stay in it a night longer, if it were possible to
get away; and I do hope you and Mrs. Delamere will let me go as soon
as ever you can, sir, as it will be the death of me.”

“What will be the death of you?”

“The footsteps, sir, and the voices,” she answered, crying. “I can
hear them about the nurseries all night long, and it’s more than any
mortal can stand--it is, indeed.”

“Are you infected with the same folly?” I exclaimed. “I see what it
is, Dawson has been talking to you. I didn’t know I had such a couple
of fools in my establishment.”

“Mr. Dawson has said nothing to me about nothing, sir,” she answered.
“I hear what I hear with my own ears; and I wouldn’t stay a week
longer in this ’aunted place, not if you was to strew the floor with
golden guineas for me.”

Not possessing either the capability or the inclination to test Mary’s
fidelity by the means she alluded to, and finding her determination
unalterable, I gave her the desired permission to depart; only making
it a stipulation that she should not tell her mistress the real reason
for her leaving us, but ascribe it to bad news from home, or any other
cause.

But though I could not but believe that the woman’s idiotic terrors
had blinded her judgment, I was extremely surprised to find she should
have been so led astray, as I had always considered Mary to possess a
remarkably clear head and good moral sense. The wailing and
lamentation, from both mother and children, at the announcement of her
departure made me still more angry with her obstinacy and folly. But
she continued resolute; and we were driven to try and secure some one
to fulfil her duties from the neighbouring town. But here a strange
difficulty met us. We saw several fresh, rosy-cheeked maidens, who
appeared quite willing to undertake our service, until they heard
where we resided, when by an extraordinary coincidence, one and all
discovered that some insurmountable obstacle prevented their coming at
all. When the same thing had occurred several times in succession, and
Jane appeared worn out with disappointment and fatigue, the landlord
of the inn where we had put up for the day appeared at the door, and
beckoned me out.

“May I make bold enough to ask if you want a servant to go to
Rushmere?” he inquired of me in a whisper.

“Certainly, we do. Our nurse has been obliged to leave us suddenly,
and we want some one to supply her place.”

“Then you may give it up as a bad job, sir; for you’ll never get one
of the country people here about to set a foot in Rushmere--not if you
were to live there till the day of your death.”

“And why not?” I demanded, with affected ignorance.

“What, haven’t you heard nothing since you’ve been there, sir?”

“Heard? What should I have heard, except the ordinary noises of the
household?”

“Well, you’re lucky if you’ve escaped so far,” returned the landlord,
mysteriously; “but it ain’t for long. No one who lives in Rushmere
lives there _alone_. I can tell you the whole story if you like?”

“I have no desire to listen to any such folly,” I replied, testily. “I
am not superstitious, and do not believe in supernatural sights or
sounds. If the people round about here are foolish enough to do so, I
cannot help it; but I will not have the minds of my wife or family
imbued with their nonsense.”

“Very good, sir; I hope you may be able to say as much two months
hence,” said the man, civilly.

And so we parted.

I returned to Janie, and persuaded her he had told me that all the
girls of that town had a strong objection to leave it, which was the
reason they refused to take service in the country. I reminded her
that Susan was quite competent to take charge of the whole flock until
we returned to London; and it would be better after all to put up with
a little inconvenience than to introduce a stranger to the nursery. So
my wife, who was disappointed with the failure of her enterprise, fell
in with my ideas, and we returned to Rushmere, determined to do as
best we could with Susan only.

But I could not forget the landlord’s earnestness, and,
notwithstanding my incredulity, began to wish we were well out of
Rushmere.

For a few days after Mary’s departure we slept in peace; but then the
question of the mysterious footsteps assumed a graver aspect, for my
wife and I were roused from deep slumber one night by a loud knock
upon the bedroom door, and springing up to answer it, I encountered,
on the threshold, Dawson, pale with fright, and trembling in every
limb.

“What do you mean by alarming your mistress in this way?” I inquired,
angrily.

“I’m very sorry, sir,” he replied, with chattering teeth, “but I
thought it my duty to let you know. There’s some one in the house
to-night, sir. I can hear them whispering together at this moment; and
so can you, if you will but listen.”

I advanced at once to the banisters, and certainly heard what seemed
to be the sound of distant voices engaged in altercation; and, light
in hand, followed by Dawson, I dashed down the staircase without
further ceremony, in hopes of trapping the intruders.

But all in vain. Though we entered every room in turn, not a soul was
visible.

I came to the conclusion that the whole alarm was due to Dawson’s
cowardice.

“You contemptible fool, you are as chicken-hearted as a woman!” I
said, contemptuously. “You hear the frogs croaking in the mere, or the
wind blowing through the rushes, and you immediately conclude the
house is full of thieves.”

“I didn’t say it was thieves,” the man interposed, sullenly; but I
took no notice of the muttered remark.

“If you are afraid to sleep downstairs by yourself,” I continued, “say
so; but don’t come alarming your mistress again, in the middle of the
night, for I won’t allow it.”

The man slunk back into his room, with a reiteration that he had not
been mistaken; and I returned to bed, full of complaints at having
been so unnecessarily roused.

“If this kind of thing goes on,” I remarked to my wife,” I shall
regret ever having set eyes on Rushmere. That a pack of silly
maid-servants should see a robber in every bush is only to be
expected; but how a sensible man like Dawson, and a woman of education
like yourself, can permit your imagination to betray you into such
foolish fears, is quite past my comprehension.”

Yet, notwithstanding my dose of philosophy, poor Jane looked so pale
upon the following morning, that I was fain to devise and carry into
execution a little excursion into the neighbouring country before she
regained her usual composure.

Some time passed without any further disturbance, and though upon
several occasions I blamed myself for having brought a family, used to
a populous city like London, to vegetate in so isolated a spot as
Rushmere, I had almost forgotten the circumstances that had so much
annoyed me.

We had now spent a month in our temporary home. The fields and
hedgerows were bright with summer flowers, and the children passed
most of their time tumbling amongst the new-mown hay. Janie had once
more regained courage to sit by herself in the dusk, and to rest with
tolerable security when she went to bed. I was rejoicing in the idea
that all the folly that had marred the pleasure of our arrival at
Rushmere had died a natural death, when it was vividly and painfully
recalled to my mind by its actual recurrence.

Our second girl, a delicate little creature of about six years old,
who, since the departure of her nurse, had slept in a cot in the same
room as ourselves, woke me up in the middle of the night by
exclaiming, in a frightened, plaintive voice, close to my ear,--

“Papa! papa! do you hear the footsteps? Some one is coming up the
stairs!”

The tone was one of terror, and it roused my wife and myself
instantly. The child was cold, and shaking all over with alarm, and I
placed her by her mother’s side before I left the room to ascertain if
there was any truth in her assertion.

“Arthur, Arthur! I hear them as plainly as can be,” exclaimed my wife,
who was as terrified as the child. “They are on the second landing,
There is no mistake about it this time.”

I listened at the half-opened door, and was compelled to agree with
her. From whatever cause they arose, footsteps were to be distinctly
heard upon the staircase--sometimes advancing, and then retreating, as
though afraid to venture farther; but, still, not to be mistaken for
anything but the sound of feet.

With a muttered exclamation, I seized my revolver.

“Don’t be alarmed,” I said, hurriedly; “there is not the slightest
occasion for it. And, whatever happens, do not venture on the landing.
I shall be quite safe.”

And without further preamble, only desirous to settle the business
once for all, and give the intruders on my domains a sharp lesson on
the laws of _meum_ and _tuum_, I sprang down the staircase. I had not
stayed to strike a light; but the moon was shining blandly in at the
uncurtained passage window, and the landing was as bright as day. Yet
I saw no one there. The thief (if thief it were) must have already
taken the alarm, and descended to the lowest regions. I fancied I
could detect the same footsteps, but more distinctly marked, walk by
me with a hurried, frightened movement, accompanied by a quick,
sobbing breath; and, as I paused to consider what such a mystery could
indicate, a pair of heavily-shod feet rushed past me, or seemed to
rush, upon the stairs. I heard an angry shout commingle with a faint
cry of terror below the landing whereon I stood; then, the discharge
of a firearm, followed by a low groan of pain--and all was still.

Dark and mysterious though it appeared to be, I did not dream of
ascribing the circumstance to any but a natural cause. But there was
evidently no time for hesitation, and in another moment I had flown
down the stairs, and stood in the moonlighted hall. It was empty!
Chairs, table, hatstand, stood in their accustomed places; the
children’s garden hats and my fishing tackle were strewn about; but of
animated nature there was not a sign, of the recent scuffle not a
trace!

All was quiet, calm, and undisturbed, and, as I gazed around in mute
bewilderment, the perspiration stood in thick drops upon my brow and
chin.

My first collected thought was for my wife and the best means by which
to prevent her sharing the mystification and dread which I have no
hesitation in confessing that I now experienced; but as I turned to
remount the staircase, I caught sight of some dark mass lying at the
further end of the passage, and going up to it, found to my surprise
the body of Dawson, cold and insensible.

The explanation of the mystery was before me--so I immediately
determined. The man, whom I knew to be replete with superstitious
terror, imagining he heard the unaccountable noise of footsteps, had
evidently supplied that which had reached my ear, and in his alarm at
my approach had discharged his firearm at the supposed marauder.
Pleasant for me if he had taken a better aim: So I thought as I
dragged his unconscious body into his bedroom, and busied myself by
restoring it to sensation.

As soon as he opened his eyes, and was sufficiently recovered to
answer me, I asked,--

“What on earth made you discharge your gun, Dawson? I must take it out
of your keeping, if you are so careless about using it.”

“I didn’t fire, sir.”

“Nonsense! you don’t know what you are talking about. I heard the shot
distinctly as I came downstairs.”

“I am only telling you the truth, sir. There is the fowling-piece in
that corner. I have not drawn the trigger since you last loaded it.”

I went up and examined the weapon. What Dawson had said was correct.
It had not been used.

“Then who did fire?” I said, impatiently. “I could swear to having
heard the report.”

“And so could I, sir. It was that that knocked me over.”

“What do you mean?”

“Oh, sir, pray take the mistress and the children away from this place
as soon as possible. It’s no robbers that go up and down these stairs
of nights, sir. It’s something much worse than that.”

“Dawson, if you begin to talk such folly to me, I’ll discharge you on
the spot. I believe the whole lot of you have gone mad.”

“But listen to my story, sir. I had gone to bed last night, as tired
as possible, and thinking of nothing but getting a good long sleep.
The first thing that roused me was some one trying the handle of my
door. I lay and listened to it for some time before I was fully awake,
and then I thought maybe you wanted something out of my room, and was
trying not to wake me; so I got out of bed and opened the door. But
there was nobody there, though I fancied I heard some one breathing
hard a few yards off from me. Well, I thought to myself, sir, this is
all nonsense; so I came back to bed again, and lay down. But I
couldn’t sleep; for directly the door was closed, I heard the
footsteps again, creep, creeping along the passage and the wall, as
though some one was crouching and feeling his way as he went. Then the
handle of the door began to creak and turn again--I see it turn, sir,
with my own eyes, backwards and forwards, a dozen times in the
moonlight; and then I heard a heavier step come stumbling downstairs,
and there seemed to be a kind of scuffle. I couldn’t stand it no
longer, so I opened the door again; and then, as I’m a living
Christian, sir, I heard a woman’s voice say ‘Father!’ with a kind of
sob, and as the sound was uttered there came a report from the first
landing, and the sound of a fall, and a deep groan in the passage
below. And it seemed to go right through me, and curdle my blood, and
I fell all of a heap where you found me. And it’s nothing natural,
sir, you may take my word for it; and harm will come of your stopping
in this house.”

So saying, poor Dawson, who seemed in real earnest, fell back on his
pillow with a heavy sigh.

“Dawson,” I said, critically, “what did you eat for supper last
night?”

“You’re never going to put down what I’ve told you, sir, to supper. I
took nothing but a little cold meat, upon my word. And I was as
sensible, till that shot knocked me over, as you are this moment.”

“Do you mean to tell me that you seriously believe the report of a
firearm could have reached your ears without one having been
discharged?”

“But didn’t you say you heard it yourself, sir?”

This knocked me over, and I did not know what to answer him. In the
attempt to allay what I considered his unreasonable fear, I had
forgotten my own experience in the matter. And I knew that I had
heard, or imagined I heard, a shot fired, and it would be very
difficult for any one to persuade me I was mistaken. Still, though I
held no belief in supernatural agencies, I was an earnest student of
the philosophical and metaphysical school of Germany, and acquainted
with all the revealed wonders of magnetism and animal electricity. It
was impossible to say whether some such effect as I have described
might not have been produced upon my brain by the reflection of the
fear or fancy on that of my servant; and that as he had imagined the
concussion of firearms, so I might have instantaneously received the
impression of his mind. It was a nice question for argument, and not
one to be thought over at that moment. All my present business lay in
the effort to disabuse Dawson’s mind of the reality of the shock it
had received.

“I said I fancied I heard something like the report of a firearm; but
as none had been fired, of course I must have been mistaken. Come,
Dawson, I must go back, or Mrs. Delamere will wonder what has become
of me. I conclude you are not such a coward as to be afraid to be left
by yourself?”

“I never feared a man in my life, sir; but the strongest heart can’t
stand up against spirits.”

“Spirits!” I exclaimed, angrily. “I wonder what on earth you will talk
to me about next? Now, I’ll tell you what it is, Dawson--if I hear
anything more of this, or am disturbed again at night by your folly,
I’ll pack you back to London without a character. Do you understand
me?”

“I understand you, sir,” the man answered, humbly; and thereupon I
left him to himself.

But, as I reascended the staircase, I was not satisfied either with my
own half-formed solution of the mystery, or my servant’s reception of
my rebuke. He evidently would prefer dismissal to passing such another
night. I could read the resolution in his face, although he had not
expressed it in so many words. When I reached my wife’s room, I was
still more surprised. Janie and the child lay in a profound slumber. I
had expected to find both of them in a state of anxious terror to
learn the meaning of the noise that was going on below; but they had
evidently heard nothing. This welcome fact, however, only tended to
confirm me in the belief I had commenced to entertain, of the whole
circumstance being due to some, perhaps yet undiscovered, phase of
brain reading, and I fell to sleep, resolved to make a deeper study of
the marvels propounded by Mesmer and Kant. When I awoke, with the
bright June sun streaming in at the windows, I had naturally parted
with much of the impression of the night before. It is hard to
associate any gloomy or unnatural thoughts with the unlimited glory of
the summer’s sunshine, that streams into every nook and cranny, and
leaves no shadows anywhere. On this particular morning it seemed to
have cleared the cobwebs off all our brains. The child had forgotten
all about the occurrence of the night. I was, as usual, ready to laugh
away all ghostly fears and fancies; and even Janie seemed to regard
the matter as one of little moment.

“What was the matter last night, Arthur, dear?” she asked, when the
subject recurred to her memory. “I was so sleepy I couldn’t keep awake
till you came up again.”

“Didn’t you hear the fearful battle I held with the goblins in the
hall?” I demanded, gaily, though I put the question with a
purpose--“the shots that were exchanged between us, and the groans of
the defeated, as they slunk away into their haunted coal-cellars and
cupboards?”

“Arthur, what nonsense! Was there any noise?”

“Well, I frightened Dawson, and Dawson frightened me; and we squabbled
over it for the best part of an hour. I thought our talking might have
disturbed you.”

“Indeed, it didn’t, then. But don’t mention it before Cissy, Arthur,
even in fun, for she declares she heard some one walking about the
room, and I want her to forget it.”

I dropped the subject; but meeting Dawson as I was smoking my pipe in
the garden that afternoon, I ventured to rally him on his fright of
the night before, and to ask if he hadn’t got over it by that time.

“No, sir; and I never shall,” he replied, with a sort of shiver. “And
I only hope you may come to be convinced of the truth of it before
it’s too late to prevent harm you may never cease to repent of.”

There was so much respectful earnestness in the man’s manner, that I
could not resent his words nor laugh at them, as I had done before;
and I passed by him in thoughtful silence.

What if there were more in all this than I had ever permitted myself
to imagine? What if the assertions of my man-servant, the unaffected
terror of my wife and child, the fears of my nurse, the evident
shrinking of the old woman who had charge of the house, the opposition
from the servants of the neighbouring town, combined with what I had
heard myself, were not simple chimeras of the brain--fancies
engendered by superstition or timidity or ignorance; but indications
of a power beyond our control, the beginning and the end of which may
alike remain unknown until all things are revealed? I had, with the
majority of educated men, manfully resisted all temptation to believe
in the possibility of spirits, of whatever grade, making themselves
either seen or heard by mortal senses. I use the word “manfully,”
although I now believe it to be the height of manliness to refuse to
discredit that which we cannot disprove, and to have sufficient
humility to accept the belief that there are more things in heaven and
earth than are dreamt of in our philosophy. But at that juncture I
should have considered such a concession both childish and cowardly.
Yet, there was sufficient doubt in my mind, notwithstanding the
glorious June sun, respecting my adventure of the night before, that I
resolved, whatever happened, that I would satisfy myself as to the
value of the fears of those about me.

I could not keep my wife and children in a house where they might be
liable at any moment to be frightened out of their seven senses, from
whatever cause, without ascertaining the reason of it. Some reason
there must be, either natural or otherwise; and I determined, if
possible, to learn it that very night. I would not tell Dawson or
anyone of my intention; but I would keep watch and ward in the old
parlour on the ground floor, so as to be ready to rush out at a
moment’s notice, and seize any intruder who might attempt to disturb
us. I still believed--I could not but believe--that the footsteps
which so many of us had heard were due to some trickster, who wished
to play upon our nerves in that lonely old house. I had heard of such
things being done, purposely to keep visitors away; and I determined,
whosoever it might be, whether our own servants or strangers, that
they must take their chance of being shot down like any other robber.

According to my resolution, I said nothing to Janie, but tried to
render the evening as cheerful and merry a one as possible.

I ordered strawberries and cream into the hayfield, and played with my
troop of little ones there, until they were so tired they could hardly
walk for the short distance that lay between them and their beds. As
soon as they were dismissed, and we had returned to the house, I laid
aside the newspapers that had arrived by that morning’s post, and
which I usually reserved for the evening’s delectation, and taking my
wife upon my knee, as in the dear old courting days, talked to her
until she had forgotten everything but the topics on which we
conversed, and had no time to brood upon the coming night, and the
fears it usually engendered. Then, as a last duty, I carried to Dawson
with my own hands a strong decoction of brandy and water, with which
I had mixed something that I knew, under ordinary circumstances, must
make him sleep till daylight.

“Drink this,” I said to him. “From whatever cause, our nerves were
both shaken last night, and a little stimulant will do neither of us
harm.”

“Thank you, sir,” he replied, as he finished the tumbler at a draught;
“I don’t deny I’m glad to have it. I dread the thoughts of the night
before us.”

“Lock your door on the inside,” I added as I left him, “and don’t get
up whether the handle moves or not. Then, at all events, you will feel
secure till the morrow.”

“Keys won’t keep _them_ out,” muttered Dawson, as he entered his
sleeping apartment.

But I would not notice the allusion, though I understood it.

I went up to bed with my wife as usual; and it was not until I saw she
was sound asleep that, habited in my dressing-gown and slippers, I
ventured to creep softly out of the room and take my way downstairs
again.

It was then about twelve o’clock. The moonlight was as bright as it
had been the night before, and made every object distinctly visible.
From the loud snoring which proceeded from Dawson’s room, I concluded
that my opiate had taken due effect, and that I should be permitted to
hold my vigil undisturbed. In one hand I grasped a loaded revolver,
and in the other a huge knotted stick, so determined was I not to be
taken by my tormentors at a disadvantage. I turned into the general
sitting-room, which opened on the hall. All was as we had left it; and
I ensconced myself on one of the large old-fashioned sofas, trusting
to my curiosity to keep me awake.

It was weary waiting. I heard one and then two sound from the big
clock in the hall; still there was no other noise to break the
silence. I began to relapse into my first belief that the whole
business was due to imagination. From this I passed to
self-satisfaction; self-satisfaction induced inertion, and inertion
brought on heavy sleep. How long I slept I do not know, but I had
reason afterwards to think, not more than half-an-hour.

However, that point is immaterial. But what waked me--waked me so
completely that in a moment all my faculties were as clear as
daylight--was the sound of a hoarse breathing. I sat up on the sofa
and rubbed my eyes.

The room was fully lighted by the moon. I could see into each corner.
Nothing was visible. The sound I had heard must then have proceeded
from outside the door, which was open; and I turned towards it, fully
expecting to see Dawson enter in a somnambulistic condition, brought
on by his dreams and my soporific.

But he did not appear. I rose and looked into the hall. It was empty,
as before. Still the breathing continued, and (as I, with now
fully-awakened faculties, discovered) proceeded from a corner of the
parlour where stood an old-fashioned secretary and a chair. Not daring
to believe my senses, I advanced to the spot and listened attentively.
The sound continued, and was unmistakably palpable. The breathing was
hoarse and laboured, like that of an old man who was suffering from
bronchitis or asthma. Every now and then it was interrupted by a
short, roupy cough. What I suffered under this mysterious influence I
can hardly tell. Interest and curiosity got the better of my natural
horror; but even then I could not but feel that there was something
very awful in this strange contact of sound without sight. Presently
my eyes were attracted by the chair, which was pushed, without any
visible agency, towards the wall. Something rose--I could hear the
action of the feet. Something moved--I could hear it approaching the
spot where I stood motionless. Something brushed past me, almost
roughly--I could feel the contact of a cloth garment against my
dressing-gown, and heard the sound of coarsely shod feet leaving the
room. My hair was almost standing on end with terror; but I was
determined to follow the mystery to its utmost limits, whether my
curiosity were satisfied by the attempt or not.

I rushed after the clumping feet into the hall; and I heard them
slowly and painfully, and yet most distinctly, commence to toil up the
staircase. But before they had reached the first landing, and just as
I was about to follow in their wake, my attention was distracted by
another sound, which appeared to be close at my elbow--the sound of
which Dawson had complained the night before--that of a creeping step,
and a stifled sobbing, as though a woman were feeling her way along
the passage in the dark. I could discern the feeble touch as it felt
along the wall, and then placed an uncertain hold upon the
banisters--could hear the catching breath, which dared not rise into a
cry, and detect the fear which caused the feet to advance and retreat,
and advance a little way again, and then stop, as though dread of some
unknown calamity overpowered every other feeling. Meanwhile, the
clumping steps, that had died away in the distance, turned, and
appeared to be coming downstairs again. The moon streamed brightly in
at the landing window. Had a form been visible, it would have been as
distinctly seen as by day. I experienced a sense of coming horror, and
drew back in the shadow of the wall. As the heavy footsteps gained the
lower landing, I heard a start--a scuffle--a faint cry of “Father!”
and then a curse--the flash of a firearm--a groan--and I remember
nothing more.

When I recovered my consciousness, I was lying on the flat of my back
in the passage, as I had found poor Dawson the night before, and the
morning sun was shining full upon my face. I sat up, rubbed my eyes,
and tried to remember how I had come there. Surely the moon had looked
in at that window when I saw it last. Then in a moment came back upon
my mind all that I had heard whilst holding my vigil during the past
night; and I sprang to my feet, to see if I could discover any traces
of the tragedy which seemed to have been enacted in my very presence.

But it was in vain I searched the parlour, the passage, and the
stairs. Everything remained in its usual place. Even the chair, which
I could swear I saw pushed against the wall, was now standing primly
before the secretary, and the door of the room was closed, as it
usually was when we retired for the night. I slunk up to my
dressing-room, anxious that my wife should not discover that I had
never retired to rest; and having plunged my head and face into cold
water, took my way across the sunlighted fields, to see if the fresh
morning air might not be successful in clearing away the confusion
with which my brain was oppressed. But I had made up my mind on one
point, and that was that we would move out of Rushmere as soon as it
was possible to do so. After a stroll of a couple of hours, I
re-approached the house. The first person I encountered was the under
nurse, Susan, who ran to meet me with a perturbed countenance.

“Oh, sir, I’m so thankful you’ve come back! Dawson has been looking
for you for the last hour, for poor missus is so ill, and we don’t
know what on earth to do with her.”

“Ill! In what way?” I demanded quickly.

“That’s what we can’t make out, sir. Miss Cissy came up crying to the
nursery, the first thing this morning, to tell me that her mamma had
tumbled out of bed, and wouldn’t speak to her; and she couldn’t find
her papa. So I ran downstairs directly, sir; and there I found my
mistress on the ground, quite insensible, and she hasn’t moved a limb
since.”

“Good heavens!” I inwardly exclaimed, as I ran towards the house, “is
it possible she can have been affected by the same cause?”

I found Janie, as the nurse had said, unconscious; and it was some
time before my remedies had any effect on her. When she opened her
eyes, and understood the condition she had been in, she was seized
with such a fit of nervous terror that she could do nothing but cling
to me, and entreat me to take her away from Rushmere.

Remembering my own experience, I readily promised her that she should
not sleep another night in the house if she did not desire it. Soothed
by my words, she gradually calmed down, and was at last able to relate
the circumstance which had so terrified her.

“Did you sleep in my room last night, dear Arthur?” she asked,
curiously.

“I did not. But since you awoke, you surely must have been aware of my
absence.”

“I know nothing, and remember nothing, except the awful horror that
overpowered me. I had gone to sleep very happy last night, and none of
my silly fears, as you have called them, ever entered my head. Indeed,
I think I was in the midst of some pleasant dream, when I was awakened
by the sound of a low sobbing by the bedside. Oh, such a strange,
unearthly sobbing” (with a shudder). “I thought at first it must be
poor little Cissy, who had been frightened again, and I put out my
hand to her, saying,--

“‘Don’t be afraid, dear. I am here.’

“Directly, a hand was placed in mine--a cold, damp hand, with a
deathlike, clayey feel about it that made me tremble. I knew at once
it was not the child’s hand, and I started up in bed, exclaiming,--

“‘Who are you?’

“The room was quite dark, for I had pinned my shawl across the blind
to keep the moon out of my eyes before I went to bed, and I could
distinguish nothing. Yet still the cold, damp hand clung to mine, and
seemed to strike the chill of death into my very bones. When I said,
‘Who are you?’ something replied to me. I cannot say it was a voice.
It was more like some one hissing at me through closed teeth, but I
could distinguish the name ‘Emily.’

“I was so frightened, Arthur, I did not know what to do. I wrenched my
hand away from the dead hand. You were not there, and I called out
loudly. I would have leaped out of bed, but that I heard the creeping
footsteps, accompanied by the sobbing breath, go round the room,
crying, ‘Father, father!’

“My blood seemed to curdle in my veins. I could not stir until it was
gone. I heard it leave the room distinctly, although the door was
never opened, and walk upon the landing as though to go downstairs. I
was still sitting up in bed listening--listening--only waiting till
the dreadful thing had quite gone away, to seek your presence, when I
heard a heavy step clumping downstairs, then the report of a gun. I
don’t know _what_ I thought. I remember nothing that followed; but I
suppose I jumped out of bed with the intention of finding you, and
fainted before I could reach the dressing-room. Oh, Arthur! what was
it? What is it that haunts this house, and makes even the sunshine
look as gloomy as night? Oh, take us away from it, or I am sure that
something terrible will happen!”

“I _will_ take you away from it, my dear. We will none of us sleep
another night beneath its roof. What curse hangs over it, I cannot
tell; but whether the strange sounds we have heard proceed from
natural or supernatural causes, they alike render Rushmere no home for
us. We will go to the hotel at ---- this very day, Janie, and deliver
up the keys of Rushmere again to Messrs. Quibble & Lye.”

I then related to her my own experience, and that of Dawson; and
though she trembled a little whilst listening to me, the idea of
leaving the place before nightfall rendered the heavy fear less
alarming than it would otherwise have been.

The servants, upon learning the resolution we had arrived at, were
only too ready to help us to carry it out. Our personal possessions
were packed in an incredibly short time, and we sat down that evening
to a comfortable family dinner in the good old-fashioned inn at ----.
As soon as the meal was concluded, and the children sent to bed, I
said to my wife,--

“Janie, I am going to ring for the landlord, to see if he can throw
any light on the cause of our experiences. I never told you that, when
we came to this inn to try for a nurse to supply Mary’s place, he
informed me that nobody from his country-side would live at Rushmere;
and asked me, in a manner which assured me he could have said more if
he had chosen, if we had not heard anything whilst there. I laughed at
the question then, but I do not feel so disposed to laugh at it now;
and I am going to beg him to tell me all he may know. If nothing more,
his story may form the stratum of a curious psychological study. Would
you like to be present at our interview?”

“Oh yes, Arthur; I have quite recovered my nerves since I’ve lost
sight of Rushmere, and I feel even curious to learn all I can upon the
subject. That poor, sobbing voice that whispered ‘Emily’--I shall not
forget its sound to my dying day.”

“Ring the bell, dear, and let us ask if the landlord is at leisure. To
my mind, your experience of the details of this little tragedy appears
the most interesting of all.”

The landlord, a Mr. Browser, entered at once; and as soon as he heard
my request, made himself completely at home with us.

“After the little rebuff you gave me t’other day, I shouldn’t have
ventured to say nothing, sir; but when I see your family getting out
of the fly this afternoon, I says to Mrs. Browser, ‘If that don’t mean
that they can’t stand Rushmere another night, I’m a pumpkin.’ And I
suppose, now, it did mean it, sir?”

“You are quite right, Mr. Browser. The noises and voices about the
house have become so intolerable, that it is quite impossible I can
keep my family there. Still, I must tell you that, though I have been
unable to account for the disturbances, I do not necessarily believe
they are attributable to spirits. It is because I do not believe so
that I wish to hear all you may be able to tell us, in order, if
possible, to find a reason for what appears at present to be
unreasonable.”

“Well, sir, you shall hear, as you say, all we have to tell you, and
then you can believe what you like. But it ain’t I as can relate the
story, sir. Mrs. Browser knows a deal more than I do; and with your
leave, and that of this good lady here, I’ll call her to give you the
history of Rushmere.”

At this information, we displayed an amount of interest that resulted
in a hasty summons for Mrs. Browser. She was a fat, fair woman, of
middle age, with ruddy cheeks, and a clear blue eye--not at all like a
creature haunted by her own weak imagination, or who would be likely
to mistake a shadow for a substance. Her appearance inspired me with
confidence. I trusted that her relation might furnish me with some
clue to the solution of the occurrences that had so confounded us.
Safe out of the precincts of Rushmere, and with the lapse of twelve
hours since the unaccountable swoon I had been seized with, my
practical virtues were once more in the ascendant, and I was inclined
to attribute our fright to anything but association with the
marvellous.

“Be I to tell the story from the beginning, Browser?” was the first
sentence that dropped from Mrs. Browser’s lips.

Her lord and master nodded an affirmative, whereupon she began:--

“When the gentleman as built Rushmere for his own gratification, sir,
died, the house let well enough. But the place proved lonely, and
there was more than one attempt at robbery, and people grew tired of
taking it. And above all, the girls of the village began to refuse to
go to service there. Well, it had been standing empty for some months,
when a gentleman and his wife came to look after it. Browser and I--we
didn’t own this inn at that time, you will understand, sir, but kept a
general shop in the village, and were but poorly off altogether,
although we had the post-office at our place, and did the best
business thereabouts. The key of Rushmere used always to be left in
our keeping, too, and our boy would go up to show folks over the
house. Well, one damp autumn day--I mind the day as if ’twere
yesterday, for Browser had been ailing sadly with the rheumatics for
weeks past, and not able to lift his hand to his head--this gentleman
and lady, who went by the name of Greenslade, came for the keys of
Rushmere. I remember thinking Mr. Greenslade had a nasty, curious look
about his eyes, and that his wife seemed a poor, brow-beaten creature;
but that was no business of mine, and I sent Bill up with them to show
the house. They took it, and entered on possession at once; and then
came the difficulty about the servants. Not a soul would enter the
place at first. Then a girl or two tried it, and came away when their
month was up, saying the house was so lonesome, they couldn’t sleep at
nights, and the master was so queer-spoken and mannered, they were
afraid of him.”

“Don’t forget to say what he was used to do at nights,” here put in
the landlord.

“La, Browser, I’m a-coming to it. Everything in its time. Well, sir,
at last it came to this, that Mrs. Greenslade hadn’t a creature to
help her in anythink, and down she came to ask if I would go to them
for a few days. I stared; for there was the shop to be tended, and the
post-office looked after, and I hadn’t been used to odd jobs like
that. But my husband said that he could do all that was wanted in the
business; and we were very hard drove just then, and the lady offered
such liberal pay, he over-persuaded me to go, if only on trial. So I
put my pride in my pocket, and went out charing. I hadn’t been at
Rushmere many days, sir, before I found something was very wrong
there. Mr. Greenslade hardly ever spoke a word, but shut himself up in
a room all day, or went mooning about the fields and common, where he
couldn’t meet a soul; and as for the poor lady, la! my heart bled for
her, she seemed so wretched and broken-down and hopeless. I used often
to say to her--

“‘Now, ma’am, do let me cook you a bit of something nice, for you’ve
eaten nothing since yesterday, and you’ll bring yourself down to
death’s door at this rate.’

“And she’d answer,--

“‘No, thank you, Mrs. Browser: I couldn’t touch it. I feel sometimes
as if I’d never care to eat or drink again.’

“And Mr. Greenslade, he was just as bad. They didn’t eat enough to
keep a well-grown child between the two of them.”

“What-aged people were they?” I asked.

“Well, sir, I can hardly say; they weren’t young nor yet old. Mr.
Greenslade, he may have been about fifty, and his lady a year or two
younger; but I never took much count of that. But the gentleman looked
much the oldest of the two, by reason of a stoop in his shoulders and
a constant cough that seemed to tear his chest to pieces. I’ve known
him shut himself up in the parlour the whole night long, coughing away
fit to keep the whole house awake. And his breathing, sir--you could
hear it half a mile off.”

“He was _assmatical_, poor man! that’s where it was,” interposed Mr.
Browser.

“Well, I don’t know what his complaint was called, Browser; but he
made noise enough over it to wake the dead. But don’t you go
interrupting me no more after that fashion, or the gentleman and lady
will never understand the half of my story, and I’m just coming to the
cream of it.”

“I assure you we are deeply interested in what you are telling us,” I
said, politely.

“It’s very good of you to compliment me, sir, but I expect it will
make matters clearer to you by-and-by. You’re not the first tenants of
Rushmere I’ve had to tell this tale to, I can tell you, and you won’t
be the last, either. One night, when I couldn’t sleep for his nasty
cough, and lay awake, wishing to goodness he’d go to bed like a
Christian, I made sure I heard footsteps in the hall, a-creeping and
a-creeping about like, as though some one was feeling their way round
the house. ‘It can’t be the mistress,’ I thought, ‘and maybe it’s
robbers, as have little idea the master’s shut up in the study.’ So I
opened the door quickly, but I could see nothing.”

“Exactly my own experience,” I exclaimed.

“Ah, sir, maybe; but they weren’t the same footsteps, poor dear. I
wish they had been, and she had the same power to tread now she had
then. The hall was empty; but at the same time I heard the master
groaning and cursing most awful in the parlour, and I went into my own
room again, that I mightn’t listen to his wicked oaths and words. I
always hated and distrusted that man from the beginning. The next day
I mentioned I had heard footsteps, before ’em both, and the rage Mr.
Greenslade put himself into was terrible. He said no robbers had
better break into his house, or he’d shoot them dead as dogs.
Afterwards his wife came to me and asked me what sort of footsteps
they seemed; and when I told her, she cried upon my neck, and begged
me if I ever heard a woman’s step to say nothing of it to her husband.

“‘A woman’s step, ma’am,’ I replied; ‘why, what woman would dare break
into a house?’

“But she only cried the more, and held her tongue.

“But that evening I heard their voices loud in the parlour, and there
was a regular dispute between them.

“‘If ever she could come, Henry,’ Mrs. Greenslade said, ‘promise me
you won’t speak to her unless you can say words of pity or of
comfort.’

“‘Pity!’ he yelled, ‘what pity has she had for me? If ever she or any
emissary of hers should dare to set foot upon these premises, I shall
treat them as house-breakers, and shoot them down like dogs.’

“‘Oh no! Henry, no!’ screamed the poor woman; ‘think who she is. Think
of her youth, her temptation, and forgive her.’

“‘I’ll never forgive her--I’ll never own her,’ the wretch answered
loudly; ‘but I’ll treat her, or any of the cursed crew she associates
with, as I would treat strangers who forced their way in to rob me by
night. ’Twill be an evil day for them when they attempt to set foot in
my house.’

“Well, sir, I must cut this long story short, or you and your good
lady will never get to bed to-night.

“The conversation I had overheard made me feel very uncomfortable, and
I was certain some great misfortune or disgrace had happened to the
parties I was serving; but I didn’t let it rest upon my mind, till a
few nights after, when I was wakened up by the same sound of creeping
footsteps along the passage. As I sat up in bed and listened to them,
I heard the master leave the parlour and go upstairs. At the same
moment something crouched beside my door, and tried to turn the
handle; but it was locked, and wouldn’t open. I felt very uneasy. I
knew my door stood in the shadow, and that whoever crouched there must
have been hidden from Mr. Greenslade as he walked across the hall.
Presently I heard his footsteps coming downstairs again, as though he
had forgotten something. He used to wear such thick boots, sir, you
might hear his step all over the house. His loaded gun always stood on
the first landing; when he reached there he stopped, I suppose it was
his bad angel made him stop. Anyway, there was a low cry of ‘Father,
father!’--a rush, the report of the gun, a low groan, and then all was
still.

“La! sir, I trembled so in my bed, you might have seen it shake under
me.”

“I’ve seen it shake under you many a time,” said Browser.

“Perhaps you would like to tell the lady and gentleman my exact
weight, though I don’t see what that’s got to do with the story,”
replied his better half, majestically.

“I don’t think I should ever have had the courage to leave my room,
sir, unless I had heard my poor mistress fly down the staircase, with
a loud scream. Then I got up, and joined her. Oh, it was an awful
sight! There, stretched on the floorcloth, lay the dead body of a
young girl; and my mistress had fainted dead away across her, and was
covered with the blood that was pouring from a great hole in her
forehead. On the landing stood my master, white as a sheet, and
shaking like an aspen leaf.

“‘So, this is your doing!’ I cried, angrily. ‘You’re a nice man to
have charge of a gun. Do you see what you’ve done? Killed a poor girl
in mistake for a robber, and nearly killed your wife into the bargain.
Who is this poor murdered young creature? Do you know her?’

“‘Know her!’ he repeated, with a groan. ‘Woman, don’t torture me with
your questions. _She is my own daughter!_’

“He rushed upstairs as he spoke, and I was in a nice quandry, left
alone with the two unconscious women. When my poor mistress woke up
again, she wanted me to fetch a doctor; but it would have been of no
use. She was past all human help.

“We carried the corpse upstairs between us, and laid it gently on the
bed. I’ve often wondered since where the poor mother’s strength came
from, but it was lent her for the need. Then, sitting close to me for
the remainder of the night, she told me her story--how the poor girl
had led such an unhappy life with her harsh, ill-tempered father, that
she had been tempted into a foolish marriage by the first lover that
offered her affection and a peaceful home.

“‘I always hoped she would come back to us,’ said Mrs. Greenslade,
‘for her husband had deserted her, leaving her destitute; and yet,
although she knew how to enter the house unobserved, I dreaded her
doing so, because of her father’s bitter enmity. Only last night, Mrs.
Browser, I awoke from sleep, and fancied I heard a sobbing in my room.
I whispered, “Who is there?” And a voice replied “Emily!” But I
thought it was a dream. If I had known--if I had but known!’

“She lay so quiet and uncomplaining on my knee, only moving now and
then, that she frightened me; and when the morning broke, I tried to
shift her, and said,--

“‘Hadn’t I better go and see after the master, ma’am?’

“As I mentioned his name, I could see the shudder that ran through her
frame, but she motioned me away with her hand.

“I went upstairs to a room Mr. Greenslade called his dressing-room,
and where I guessed he’d gone; and you’ll never believe, sir, the
awful sight as met my eyes. I didn’t get over it for a month--did I,
Browser?”

“You haven’t got over it to this day, I’m sometimes thinking, missus.”

“That means I’m off my head; but if it wasn’t for my head, I wonder
where the business would go to. No, sir--if you’ll believe me, when I
entered the room, there was the old man dead as mutton, hanging from a
beam in the ceiling. I gave one shriek, and down I fell.”

“I don’t wonder at it,” cried Janie.

“Well, ma’am, when I came to again, all was confusion and misery. We
had the perlice in, and the crowner’s inquest, and there was such a
fuss, you never see. Some of Mrs. Greenslade’s friends came and
fetched her away; but I heard she didn’t live many months afterwards.
As for myself, I was only too glad to get back to the shop and my old
man, and the first words I said to him was,--

“‘No more charing for me.’

“And now, sir, if I may make so bold, what do you think of the story?”
demanded the landlord. “Can you put this and that together now?”

“It is marvellous,” I replied. “Your wife has simply repeated the
scene which we have heard enacted a dozen times in Rushmere. The
footsteps were a nightly occurrence.”

“I heard the voice!” exclaimed Janie, “and it whispered ‘_Emily_.’”

“The handle of my servant’s door was turned. The report of the gun was
as distinct as possible.”

“That is what everybody says as goes to Rushmere, sir. No one can
abide the place since that awful murder was committed there,” said
Mrs. Browser.

“And can you account for it in any way, sir?” demanded her husband,
slyly. “Do you think, now that you’ve heard the story, that the noises
are mortal, or that it’s the spirits of the dead that causes them?”

“I don’t know what to think, Browser. There is a theory that no
uttered sound is ever lost, but drifts as an eddying circle into
space, until in course of time it must be heard again. Thus our evil
words, too often accompanied by evil deeds, live for ever, to testify
against us in eternity. It may be that the Universal Father ordains
that some of His guilty children shall expurgate their crimes by
reacting them until they become sensible of their enormity; but this
can be but a matter for speculation. This story leaves us, as such
stories usually do, as perplexed as we were before. We cannot tell--we
probably never _shall_ tell--what irrefragable laws of the universe
these mysterious circumstances fulfil; but we know that spirit and
matter alike are in higher hands than ours; and, whilst nature cannot
help trembling when brought in contact with the supernatural, we have
no need to fear that it will ever be permitted to work us harm.”

This little analysis was evidently too much for Mr. and Mrs. Browser,
who, with a look of complete mystification on their countenances, rose
from their seats, and wished us respectfully good-night; leaving Janie
and me to evolve what theories we chose from the true story of the
Invisible Tenants of Rushmere.
