AT THE DIP OF THE ROAD.

Have I ever seen a ghost?

I do not know.

That is the only reply I can truthfully make to the question now-a-days
so often asked. And sometimes, if inquirers care to hear more, I go on
to tell them the one experience which makes it impossible for me to
reply positively either in the affirmative or negative, and restricts me
to "I do not know".

This was the story.

I was staying with relations in the country. Not a very isolated or
out-of-the-way part of the world, and yet rather inconvenient of access
by the railway. For the nearest station was six miles off. Though the
family I was visiting were nearly connected with me I did not know much
of their home or its neighbourhood, as the head of the house, an uncle
of mine by marriage, had only come into the property a year or two
previously to the date of which I am writing, through the death of an
elder brother.

It was a nice place. A good comfortable old house, a prosperous,
satisfactory estate. Everything about it was in good order, from the
farmers, who always paid their rents, to the shooting, which was always
good; from the vineries, which were noted, to the woods, where the
earliest primroses in all the country side were yearly to be found.

And my uncle and aunt and their family deserved these pleasant things
and made a good use of them.

But there was a touch of the commonplace about it all. There was nothing
picturesque or romantic. The country was flat though fertile, the house,
though old, was conveniently modern in its arrangements, airy, cheery,
and bright.

"Not even a ghost, or the shadow of one," I remember saying one day with
a faint grumble.

"Ah, well--as to that," said my uncle, "perhaps we----" but just then
something interrupted him, and I forgot his unfinished speech.

Into the happy party of which for the time being I was one, there fell
one morning a sudden thunderbolt of calamity. The post brought news of
the alarming illness of the eldest daughter--Frances, married a year or
two ago and living, as the crow flies, at no very great distance. But
as the crow flies is not always as the railroad runs, and to reach the
Aldoyns' home from Fawne Court, my uncle's place, was a complicated
business--it was scarcely possible to go and return in a day.

"Can one of you come over?" wrote the young husband. "She is already out
of danger, but longing to see her mother or one of you. She is worrying
about the baby"--a child of a few months old--"and wishing for nurse."

We looked at each other.

"Nurse must go at once," said my uncle to me, as the eldest of the
party. Perhaps I should here say that I am a widow, though not old, and
with no close ties or responsibilities. "But for your aunt it is
impossible."

"Quite so," I agreed. For she was at the moment painfully lamed by
rheumatism.

"And the other girls are almost too young at such a crisis," my uncle
continued. "Would you, Charlotte----" and he hesitated. "It would be
such a comfort to have personal news of her."

"Of course I will go," I said. "Nurse and I can start at once. I will
leave her there, and return alone, to give you, I have no doubt, better
news of poor Francie."

He was full of gratitude. So were they all.

"Don't hurry back to-night," said my uncle. "Stay till--till Monday if
you like." But I could not promise. I knew they would be glad of news at
once, and in a small house like my cousin's, at such a time, an inmate
the more might be inconvenient.

"I will try to return to-night," I said. And as I sprang into the
carriage I added: "Send to Moore to meet the last train, unless I
telegraph to the contrary."

My uncle nodded; the boys called after me, "All right;" the old butler
bowed assent, and I was satisfied.

Nurse and I reached our journey's end promptly, considering the four or
five junctions at which we had to change carriages. But on the whole
"going," the trains fitted astonishingly.

We found Frances better, delighted to see us, eager for news of her
mother, and, finally, disposed to sleep peacefully now that she knew
that there was an experienced person in charge. And both she and her
husband thanked me so much that I felt ashamed of the little I had done.
Mr. Aldoyn begged me to stay till Monday; but the house was upset, and I
was eager to carry back my good tidings.

"They are meeting me at Moore by the last train," I said. "No, thank
you, I think it is best to go."

"You will have an uncomfortable journey," he replied. "It is Saturday,
and the trains will be late, and the stations crowded with the market
people. It will be horrid for you, Charlotte."

But I persisted.

It _was_ rather horrid. And it was queer. There was a sort of uncanny
eeriness about that Saturday evening's journey that I have never
forgotten. The season was very early spring. It was not very cold, but
chilly and ungenial. And there were such odd sorts of people about. I
travelled second-class; for I am not rich, and I am very independent.
I did not want my uncle to pay my fare, for I liked the feeling of
rendering him some small service in return for his steady kindness to
me. The first stage of my journey was performed in the company of two
old naturalists travelling to Scotland to look for some small plant
which was to be found only in one spot in the Highlands. This I gathered
from their talk to each other. You never saw two such extraordinary
creatures as they were. They both wore black kid gloves much too large
for them, and the ends of the fingers waved about like feathers.

Then followed two or three short transits, interspersed with weary
waitings at stations. The last of these was the worst, and tantalising,
too, for by this time I was within a few miles of Moore. The station was
crowded with rough folk, all, it seemed to me, more or less tipsy. So I
took refuge in a dark waiting-room on the small side line by which I was
to proceed, where I felt I might have been robbed and murdered and no
one the wiser.

But at last came my slow little train, and in I jumped, to jump out
again still more joyfully some fifteen minutes later when we drew up at
Moore.

I peered about for the carriage. It was not to be seen; only two or
three tax-carts or dog-carts, farmers' vehicles, standing about, while
their owners, it was easy to hear, were drinking far more than was good
for them in the taproom of the Unicorn. Thence, nevertheless--not to
the taproom, but to the front of the inn--I made my way, though not
undismayed by the shouts and roars breaking the stillness of the quiet
night. "Was the Fawne Court carriage not here?" I asked.

The landlady was a good-natured woman, especially civil to any member of
the "Court" family. But she shook her head.

"No, no carriage had been down to-day. There must have been some
mistake."

There was nothing for it but to wait till she could somehow or other
disinter a fly and a horse, and, worst of all a driver. For the "men"
she had to call were all rather--"well, ma'am, you see it's Saturday
night. We weren't expecting any one."

And when, after waiting half an hour, the fly at last emerged, my heart
almost failed me. Even before he drove out of the yard, it was very
plain that if ever we reached Fawne Court alive, it would certainly be
more thanks to good luck than to the driver's management.

But the horse was old and the man had a sort of instinct about him. We
got on all right till we were more than half way to our journey's end.
The road was straight and the moonlight bright, especially after we had
passed a certain corner, and got well out of the shade of the trees
which skirted the first part of the way.

Just past this turn there came a dip in the road. It went down, down
gradually, for a quarter of a mile or more, and I looked up anxiously,
fearful of the horse taking advantage of the slope. But no, he jogged
on, if possible more slowly than before, though new terrors assailed me
when I saw that the driver was now fast asleep, his head swaying from
side to side with extraordinary regularity. After a bit I grew easier
again; he seemed to keep his equilibrium, and I looked out at the side
window on the moon-flooded landscape, with some interest. I had never
seen brighter moonlight.

Suddenly from out of the intense stillness and loneliness a figure, a
human figure, became visible. It was that of a man, a young and active
man, running along the footpath a few feet to our left, apparently
from some whim, keeping pace with the fly. My first feeling was of
satisfaction that I was no longer alone, at the tender mercies of my
stupefied charioteer. But, as I gazed, a slight misgiving came over me.
Who could it be running along this lonely road so late, and what was his
motive in keeping up with us so steadily. It almost seemed as if he had
been waiting for us, yet that, of course, was impossible. He was not
very highwayman-like certainly; he was well-dressed--neatly-dressed that
is to say, like a superior gamekeeper--his figure was remarkably good,
tall and slight, and he ran gracefully. But there was something queer
about him, and suddenly the curiosity that had mingled in my observation
of him was entirely submerged in alarm, when I saw that, as he ran, he
was slowly but steadily drawing nearer and nearer to the fly.

"In another moment he will be opening the door and jumping in," I
thought, and I glanced before me only to see that the driver was more
hopelessly asleep than before; there was no chance of his hearing if
I called out. And get out I could not without attracting the strange
runner's attention, for as ill-luck would have it, the window was drawn
up on the right side, and I could not open the door without rattling the
glass. While, worse and worse, the left hand window was down! Even that
slight protection wanting!

I looked out once more. By this time the figure was close, close to the
fly. Then an arm was stretched out and laid along the edge of the door,
as if preparatory to opening it, and then, for the first time I saw his
face. It was a young face, but terribly, horribly pale and ghastly, and
the eyes--all was so visible in the moonlight--had an expression such as
I had never seen before or since. It terrified me, though afterwards on
recalling it, it seemed to me that it might have been more a look of
agonised appeal than of menace of any kind.

I cowered back into my corner and shut my eyes, feigning sleep. It was
the only idea that occurred to me. My heart was beating like a sledge
hammer. All sorts of thoughts rushed through me; among them I remember
saying to myself: "He must be an escaped lunatic--his eyes are so
awfully wild".

How long I sat thus I don't know--whenever I dared to glance out
furtively he was still there. But all at once a strange feeling of
relief came over me. I sat up--yes, he was gone! And though, as I took
courage, I leant out and looked round in every direction, not a trace of
him was to be seen, though the road and the fields were bare and clear
for a long distance round.

When I got to Fawne Court I had to wake the lodge-keeper--every one was
asleep. But my uncle was still up, though not expecting me, and very
distressed he was at the mistake about the carriage.

"However," he concluded, "all's well that ends well. It's delightful to
have your good news. But you look sadly pale and tired, Charlotte."

Then I told him of my fright--it seemed now so foolish of me, I said.
But my uncle did not smile--on the contrary.

"My dear," he said. "It sounds very like our ghost, though, of course,
it may have been only one of the keepers."

He told me the story. Many years ago in his grandfather's time, a young
and favourite gamekeeper had been found dead in a field skirting the
road down there. There was no sign of violence upon the body; it was
never explained what had killed him. But he had had in his charge a
watch--a very valuable one--which his master for some reason or other
had handed to him to take home to the house, not wishing to keep it on
him. And when the body was found late that night, the watch was not on
it. Since then, so the story goes, on a moonlight night the spirit of
the poor fellow haunts the spot. It is supposed that he wants to tell
what had become of his master's watch, which was never found. But no one
has ever had courage to address him.

"He never comes farther than the dip in the road," said my uncle. "If
you had spoken to him, Charlotte, I wonder if he would have told you his
secret?"

He spoke half laughingly, but I have never quite forgiven myself for my
cowardice. It was the look in those eyes!
