TITLE: Old Mrs. Jones
AUTHOR: Charlotte Riddell (Mrs. J. H. Riddell)
FIRST PUBLICATION YEAR: 1882
FORM: short fiction
SOURCE EDITION/CONTAINER: Weird Stories (1882)
SOURCE URL: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/21/Weird_Stories.pdf
SOURCE PDF PAGES EXTRACTED: 245-329
TEXT STATUS: Lightly cleaned machine OCR; not a corrected diplomatic transcription.
EDITORIAL NOTE: Check quotations, punctuation, proper names, and suspected OCR errors against the scan before scholarly quotation.

--- BEGIN OCR TEXT ---

THERE could not have been found in his parish,
which was a large one, a prouder or happier
man than Richard Tippens, on the day when he
took possession of the house which had been
tenanted by Doctor Jones.
Never a better fellow drew breath than Mr.

Richard Tippens . A good son, a loving husband ,
a fond father , his worst enemy could only say of
him he had two faults- one , a tendency to be
extra generous ; the other, a perhaps undue fondness for an extra glass . But, earning money by
the pocketful, as Dick did in those days, when
there were fewer cabs and busses than at present , no tramcars, no Metropolitan or daylight
route railway, to be free-handed seemed rather
a virtue than a sin ; whilst for a man who had to
be out in all weathers , and the period of whose
meals was as uncertain as the climate, could
scarcely be blamed for yielding to the solicitations of sporting or commercial-gent fares, and
his own inclination , in the matter of little " gos "
of rum and half-quarterns of gin , and whisky

cold without , or with " just a drop of hot water
and one lump of sugar, my dear, as my fingers
is stiff with cold ."

Mr. Tippens was a cheery fellow, with a
jolly, honest, laughing face, merciful to the
cattle he drove, proud of his newly-painted
cab, of his silver-plated harness, of a fresh horse
he had just bought, and — oh ! far, far prouder
of all —of having got the old house which Doctor
Jones lived in, for so many a long and wicked
year, for a mere song in the way of rent.
It was precisely the sort of place he had been
looking out for, he could scarcely remember
how long ; an old-fashioned house -not а

grand old-fashioned house altogether above
their position, but a rambling, ramshackle
building, with a wide staircase, and lots of
cupboards, and plenty of rooms they could
let off to great advantage, and large cellars,
and a paved yard at the back, where were
also stables, and coach-house, and lofts, and
wash-house, and brew-house, and ever SO

many other odd little places, telling unconsciously of the time when people , and things,
and ways were different from what they are
now ; when wood enough for the whole winter
had to be laid in at once , and bread was
baked at home, and flitches of bacon were
laid in the racks , and such modern innovations as tradesmen calling every day for orders,
ladies only spending about thirty minutes
a week in their kitchens , and no mistress's
store-room, were matters still undreamt of.
" It is a splendid house," Mr. Richard Tippens
joyfully exclaimed, when , opening the door
with his own key, he walked into the premises
with the old creature who was to do the repairs
for him .

" Fit for any gentleman ," capped the person
in question, the accuracy of whose ideas on
any social subject of that sort was indeed open
to doubt, for he had only one definite notion
on earth, and that was beer. His point of
view was the nearest tap, and any road which
led to the desired haven seemed to him filled

with better company than the Row in the
season.

He had been in a yard where Dick Tippens ,
then owning no horses of his own, was fain to
work under a cab proprietor.
" I have known poor old Mickey," Dick was
wont to say, "for a matter of thirty years, on
and off, you know, and ever since I was as
high as that," and the great burly fellow
would indicate a height a child of five might
have scoffed at . But Dick did not add how

many a sixpence, and shilling, and half-crown,
and good warm dinner had found their way

to old Mickey since he met with the accident
(when he was drunk ) which made him for ever
after a dependent on the charity of the ratepayers, and the liberality of those who could
remember him when he was earning from
thirty-three to forty bob a week, besides
gettings." That Mickey, while in receipt of
this princely income, might have put aside a
trifle to help him over that rainy day, induced
by " the cussedest brute that ever lashed out
without a sign of warning," was an idea which
never seemed to occur either to the various
relieving officers he was under, or the many
friends who " stood treat ."

Neither was any weight attached to the
horse's view of the question . How Michael
himself would have liked his own toilet performed with the aid of a pitchfork, which
was the implement he had taken up, apparently under the impression it was a currycomb, nobody inquired . All that his Own

public considered , was that Mickey, once the
weekly recipient of " thirty-three to forty bob
and gettings," which latter item probably
amounted to as much more, had to go on the
parish, and feel thankful for half-a-crowns from
the Board, and such odd jobs as Heaven, more
merciful than the abhorred Board , put in his
way.

For the rest he was a drunken, dissolute ,
lying, discontented , carneying old vagabond,
who thrived on the kindness and folly of men
like Dick Tippens, who likewise was not laying
by a farthing, but spending such of his superfluous cash as did not go in the best of good eating and drinking and smoking, in the purchase
of useless articles of various kinds , in fine
household linen and damask, in a large stock
of clothes for himself, which he could not
possibly wear out before they grew old-fashioned ,
in shawls and dresses for his wife , each and
all destined eventually to find their way to
the pawnbroker as surely and infallibly as
the sparks fly upwards .
For apparently a mere trifle, " just a bite of
food , or a half-pint of beer , or an old pair of castoff boots, or a coat you don't care to be seen
about in any longer yourself, even in the worst
""
of weather," thus, " poor old Mikey : " or just
whatever you are pleased to give me ; or
nothing at all, Mr. Tippens. I'll make the
place clean and sweet for you. There is

little here I can't do , except maybe the roof
and a bit of bricklaying, that needs standing
on a high ladder, or the pipes mending, or the
gutter seeing to ; but leave that all to me, plenty
will be glad to earn a shilling or two , and I know
where to go to look for them ; don't you

trouble yourself at all. Which had we best

make a start with, the house, d'ye think, or the
yard ? "
Mr. Tippens thought the house. " Once he

was on the premises he could see to a bit of the
loft and stables himself, and give Mike a
helping hand ; and his wife was all agog to
get in, and put the place to rights while the
fine weather lasted ; and he had some fresh
lodgers now, only waiting till he could take
them in ; and the children, poor things, were

wild at the thought of the yard and the outbuildings ."
" And fine children they are too ," answered
the worthy Michael ; " but there, what would
hinder them ; you're not an ill-favoured man
yourself, Mr. Tippens, and I mind the time
.
when all the girls were setting their caps at
you, and the like of your wife for beauty
never stepped . The very sight of her seems
to do my old eyes good, like the sunshine on
a bright May morning. She always minds me
somehow of primroses and violets and blue
bells , and the scent of the wall-flowers that
used to grow along on the low wall of my
father's garden down in Surrey," and as he
uttered these poetical similes, Michael's watery
eyes wistfully followed the movements of Mr.
Tippens' right hand while it fumbled in his

" poor
pocket for a shilling, to bestow on the "
old fellow, who had neither chick nor child,
nor one belonging to him."
The expenditure of whitewash in that house
was something awful ; Westminster Abbey or
the Tower of London could scarcely have
required a larger outlay in whiting.
" You have no idea," said Mike, " of the
quantity of wash them ceilings needs "which indeed Mr. Tippens had not- floors, walls ,
and Mickey himself also received coat after
coat ; and the dust, according to the ex -helper's
account, was so awful, he was forced to keep
a pot of beer constantly beside him , in one
of the cupboards, to take a sip of at frequent
intervals to prevent his choking .
At last, however, even Mike felt it would
be dangerous any longer to defer announcing the completion of the repairs . He was
brought to this state of mind by a visit from
Mrs. Tippens, who , after declaring in tones not
much like the birds in Spring, that she could
have done the work herself in a quarter of
the time, said, " Done or undone, she meant
to have the cleaning ' begun on the following
Monday," when she requested the favour of
Mike's room instead of his company . -

She saw clearly enough that individual was
in a fuddled state , and whether the intoxication

was produced by beer, or gin, or whitewash ,
or the lead in the paint, did not signify to
her ;
even the praise of her children only
elicited the answer that they were 66
" well
enough ," and a more elaborate tribute to
her own charms failed to soften the asperity
with which she told him to " hold his tongue .'
" I expect that Mickey has taken you in
nicely, Dick," she said to her husband, that
night.
" Oh ! it hasn't cost me so much," answered
Mr. Tippens , easily ; " there was a whole lot of
things to do ."
As indeed he found when the rainy months
and the snow came, and the water poured

from the spouts, all of which leaked , and the
wet soaked through the broken tiles that had
never been replaced ; and it was found necessary to open all the drains.
Long before winter arrived, however, Mrs.
Tippens discovered that not a lock or bolt
in the house worked properly ; that the paint
had only been smeared on the woodwork ;

that the whole of the repairs, in fact, had
consisted in further dilapidation of the coats
of Mr. Mike's stomach ; and that almost all the
money paid by her husband for " labour,"
" material," " extra help," " hire of ladders,"
" use of pulley," and so forth, had been spent

""
over the counter of the " Guy Faux tavern ,
situated round a near and convenient corner.

Meeting Mike one day, her just indignation
found utterance, and, with feminine frankness ,
she reproached him for having deceived a man
who had been so kind to him as her husband .

Mrs. Tippens was, in no sense of the word , a
shrew, but she could upon occasion speak out
her mind, and on this occasion she did speak
it very plainly.
Mike never attempted to deny the charge,
he only tried to turn it into a victory by a
strategetical movement likely to divert her
attention .
"What was the use ," asked the hoary sinner,
" of spending good money fitting a house up
like a palace I knew you would never be able
to live in."
"What would hinder us living in it ? " retorted Mrs. Tippens, more in the way of
comment than enquiry.
"What would hinder you ?-why old Mrs.
Jones , to be sure ; she'll never let anybody
live in the house till her bones are dug up
out of the hole where her husband buried
her."

"Oh ! don't talk to me of your Mrs. Joneses,"
exclaimed Mrs. Tippens, to whom the name was
evidently not new. " At any rate, I never did
.

any harm to the woman- never saw her,

to my knowledge, so it's not likely she would
come troubling me."
" She troubles everybody that tries to live
in the house you're so set up with . Why, the
last people did not stop a fortnight . It's well
known she walks the place over, from the
second floor down ; and , if you take my advice,

you won't go into the back-cellar alone after

night ."

CHAPTER II.

T was Sunday evening, Mr. Tippens sat on one
IT
side of the fire and his wife on the other.

They had partaken of tea, and it was not yet
quite time for supper ; the children were abed,
three of them in a little room at the end of the

passage Doctor Jones had used as a surgery,
while the baby was, for a wonder ,' fast asleep in its
cradle, which stood in a dark corner behind Mrs.
Tippens' chair . The horses had long been fed
and littered down . Mr. Tippens always took a

look at them last thing, but last thing would not
be yet for an hour or more. The house was as

quiet as the grave, and through the smoke caused
by his pipe Richard Tippens, with a delightful
sense of well-being, and doing , and feeling ,
dreamily regarded his wife , who was certainly
an extremely pretty woman, possessing further
the reputation of being an extraordinarily good
manager ; neat in her own person, she always
kept her children clean and tidy and welldressed ; her rooms were regularly swept and
scrubbed, and hearthstoned and blackleaded ; she
mended her husband's clothes , and sewed on

his buttons, and with the help of a woman
who came in to " chair," as it is generally
called, did the family washing and the family
ironing ; she was a very fair cook, not in the
least lazy—quite the contrary, indeed —and yet,
if I may venture to say so, in the teeth of
public opinion, which always favours women
of her type, I do not think she was a good
manager, for she spent up to the hilt of her
income, whatever that might be. She was
always considering how to increase her

"gettings," but she never gave a thought as
to how she might save them .
Her husband gave her a liberal allowance,
and brought home from outlying regions, where
he saw such articles marked up cheap, fowls ,
fish , necks of mutton , vegetables , and other
welcome helps to housekeeping. She had a
house full of regularly paying lodgers, who
found their own latch-keys, and required no
attendance . She took in needlework, at which,

as she got it by favour, she was able to
make a considerable amount of money- and
yet, if she had told the truth to her own
heart, she would have said , " We are not one
bit better off than we were when Dick only
gave me a pound certain every week, and paid
the rent.

It is a pity someone, thoroughly up in
R

financial questions, does not inform us why uncertain incomes lead almost invariably to extravagant living.
Your true economist, your excellent manager,
your incomparable financier, is a labourer at a
given weekly wage, a clerk on starvation salary,
the lady left with the poorest of limited incomes .
The moment " gettings," in any shape, enter into
the question economy retires, worsted, from the
contest. " You have got so much to-day, you
may get so much more to-morrow," that is the
reasoning. Now, why cannot the " gettings " be
put aside ? Why cannot they be left like an egg
in the nest for more to be laid ? We know of
course, they never are ; but why is it ?
Among my own somewhat varied acquaintances, I number, at this moment of writing ,
two persons - one, a lady whose income, all told ,
does not reach a hundred a-year ; on this
amount she pays the rent of her rooms , she
lives , she dresses ; she is not young, and her
health requires some few luxuries ; yet she is
never in debt, and she has always a trifle to
spare for those who may be sick or sorry . The
other is a youth who I do not think has yet
counted eighteen summers ; his health is perfect, his rank does not necessitate other than
the most moderate expenditure for a bed ; his
hat covers his family ; when he visits, his

toilet is easily and perfectly made with a
clean collar and a fancy tie ; his weekly income has been from thirty to five-and-thirty
shillings a-week and "gettings ; " and yet,

lately, when he had been four days out of
work, with the certainty of getting into work
again on the next day but one, he had to
pawn his watch !

Most certainly political economists of the
age now coming towards us will find few more
difficult questions to deal with than this of
'gettings ." Were an angel to descend from
Heaven to-night and tell Mrs. Tippens what
I know, that " gettings " had been the curse of
herself, her husband, and her children , she
would not believe him ; so it would be worse

than folly for me to speak- even if not cruel
impertinence—now the inevitable end has come
-the parish ; the philanthropic society, the
ever- decreasing bounty for which she is able
to make interest ; such casual help as she can
get, and such work as she is able to obtain .
But no one that evening, looking at her and
her husband, as they sat beside the fire ; at the
comfortable, well-furnished room , the bright
blaze , the clean-swept hearth, could possibly
have thought evil days were looming in the
distance for both husband and wife . He , the
picture of health and strength ; she, a slight ,
R 2

and still apparently quite young woman, with a
refined style of beauty, and a cast of features
altogether unusual in her rank. When her
voice was not upraised and her temper tried ,
both of which had been the case during her
encounter with that arch-hypocrite Mike , her
mode of speaking accorded with the pure and
delicate lines of her countenance. In truth ,
she had been well brought up, and from her
youth knew how, with propriety, to address ladies
-real ladies, as she was sometimes almost too
careful to add ; and since her marriage she
had kept herself to herself ; and in her own
home her children , her relations, and her
husband , found all the interest and society she
required .
' Dick,” she said , after they had sat in silence
for some little time .
" I'm here, Luce," he answered ; " what is

it, my girl ? "
"You never told me this house was haunted ."

" I told you people said it was haunted,"
he answered, " and you laughed at the idea ;
because, as you wisely remarked, when once
people are buried they've done with this
world , sure-ly.'
" But that's just what we don't know—
whether old Mrs. Jones was ever buried or
not."

"We don't know whether she is dead or
not, for that matter."
" Then if she's not dead, where can she be ? '
"And if Doctor Jones isn't dead, where can
he be ? " retorted Mr. Tippens .
" There's dreadful things said about this
house, Dick .”
Well, you just turn a deaf ear to them,
and they won't break your night's rest .
What's Doctor or Mrs. Jones to us ? He was

a bad man, we know ; and she, if all accounts
may be trusted, was a bit of a shrew, and held
a tight grip of the money, which he married
her for . He did not take her for her good

looks , I'm sure ; for a plainer, more ordinary
woman you couldn't have met in a day's walk
in London . She was more like a witch than

anything else a little bit of a woman , with
eyes like black beads, and a face the colour
of mahogany ; but there--I've described her
before, Luce, and I think we might find something pleasanter to talk about now."
" But they say, Dick -they do , indeed - she
walks the house, and
" Pack of rubbish ," interrupted Mr. Tippens,
warmly ; " who says it— at least, who says it

to you ? "
6<
Why, mostly everybody-the baker, and
the bootmaker down the street, and Mike—— "

" She didn't hinder him staying in the house,
at any rate," commented Dick .
Well, Mr. Mowder lived here, you know. "
" And he was turned out because he wouldn't
pay a farthing of rent.
" He says," persisted Mrs. Tippens, resolutely ;
"there was always like a cold air in the
passage.
" You can't expect the hall to feel exactly
sultry with those great underground kitchens
and cellars . I've a mind to put a few spikes
in the door , and so shut the whole of those
caverns off the rest of the house."
" But then, Dick dear, what should we and
our lodgers do about coals ? "
" Aye, there you go," observed Dick dear.
" Every woman's alike ; the moment a man
makes a suggestion , she's sure to raise some
difficulty. Then I won't door ;
nail up the
""
will that meet your views, Mrs. Tippens ?
Now, Dick, don't let us quarrel ," entreated
his better half ; " there was enough of quarreling here, if all accounts be true, in the
Joneses time, without our beginning the same
""
game, and
He did not let her finish the sentence, he

took his pipe out of his mouth, and drew
his chair nearer to where she sat, and put
his arm round her waist, and drew her head

down on his shoulder, and stroked her hair
tenderly, and said, " No fear of that , old girlghosts or no ghosts ; Mrs. Jones or Mrs. Anybody
else, we'll not take to quarreling . Only, you
see, I don't want you to be listening to foolish
stories and the envious talk of people who, maybe, think we're getting on a bit too fast in the
world . The house suits me and my business
well, and I can't afford to have you set against
it , and , likely as not, wanting to leave, and me
bound for the rent for three years . Mind that,
my lass, " and he gave her a kiss so loud and
hearty, neither of them heard the opening of
the front door till the sound of several voices

caused Mr. Tippens to exclaim :
"What noise is that, Luce ? "
" The Pendells coming in," she answered ;
"they've her brother and sister with them up
from the country."

" It's about getting on for supper time then,
isn't it, Luce ? " asked Mr. Tippens, tentatively.
He was always ready for his meals on a Sunday ,
perhaps because he did not take out his cab,
and had nothing to do.
Yes, I'll bring it in now," answered his wife ;
and as she spoke she passed into a lean-to ,
opening off the sitting-room, which she had
metamorphosed into a tiny kitchen, perhaps
to avoid the dark loneliness of those underground regions Mr. Tippens well described as
caverns .

She had provided a nice little meal , and she
looked pretty and graceful as she flitted backwards and forwards, fetching one dish and then
another.
' Why, girl, this is a supper fit for the Lord
Mayor," said Mr. Tippens, looking approvingly
at the contents of the table ; " I don't think the
Queen herself

What he was going to say concerning Victoria
by the Grace of God will never now be known,
for when he arrived at this point in his sentence
there echoed through the silent house a shriek,
which brought both husband and wife to their
feet, followed by a thud, as of something heavy
falling to the ground.
" Lord bless and save us ! " exclaimed Mr.
Tippens, and seizing a light he rushed out into
the passage, followed by his wife

It was a strangely built house ; there were only
six steps to the first landing, where was a
cupboard in the wall which Mrs. Pendell used
as a sort of pantry ; half-way down this landing there were three steps more, and then the
flight that led direct to the rooms where the
Pendells lived .

As Dick Tippens and his wife ran up the halfdozen steps leading from the hall, a posse of

people came hurrying pell-mell from the upper
part of the house. " What is it ? What has

happened ? Is it thieves ? Is the house on fire ? "
No, the house was not on fire , neither had

thieves set themselves at the unprofitable task
of effecting an entry ; it was only that on the
landing Mrs. Pendell lay in the deadest faint
woman ever fell into , a large dish she had

evidently just taken out of the cupboard
smashed to atoms beside her, and the remnants
of the joint the family had operated upon in
the middle of the day a few steps down, where
it had rolled when she dropped the dish .
Everything possible and impossible the house
contained was brought to revive Mrs. Pendell ;
everybody was talking at once, and each individual had some pet theory to account for
the phenomenon.
" I told her she was a overdoing of it," said
her husband, a slow, florid , phlegmatic , pigheaded sort of man. " Didn't I, Bill ? Didn't I
say to her just on this side Whitechapel Church ,
you've been a overdoing it, Mary, you'll have
a turn of them spasms to-morrow ? "
Meantime, the subject of these remarks
had been carried into the inner chamber and
laid on her bed, where every recognised experimental, and favourite personal expedient was
tried in order to restore her to consciousness ;

she was " poor deared, " her dress was unfastened
and her stays loosened, smelling salts of every
degree of strength were held to her nostrils,
burnt feathers thrust almost up her nose, her
hands slapped , cold water dabbed on her forehead, an attempt made to get some brandy
down her throat, with various other ingenious
efforts at torture , which almost drove Mrs.
Tippens, who was in the main a very sensible
woman, distracted .

" If you'd only leave her to me and Susie,"
she said ; " there's not a breath of air in the
room , with so many standing about the bed
and the doorway. She'll be right enough after
a little, if you'll only not crowd about her,
and let me open the windows . "
" She's right," observed Mr. Pendell, from
the doorway. " Come along, all of you, Mrs.
Tippens knows what's what ."
Mrs. Pendell , however, was so long in justifying this flattering eulogy in Mrs. Tippens's
favour, that Susie, the sister, who had come up
to see her , was just asking if it would not
be better to send Bob for the nearest doctor,
when Mrs. Tippens, raising her hand to
enforce silence, said-
" H-sh- she's coming to , now."
There was a pause , a pin might have been
heard drop , so silent and eager and expectant

were the two watchers ; then Mrs. Pendell,
recovering, opened her eyes a very little, and
Mrs. Tippens, holding her left hand, and softly
rubbing it, said,
" Don't be frightened , dear, it's only me ."
" What is it ? Where am I ? " murmured
Mrs. Pendell, adding suddenly, with a gesture
of the extremest terror, " Oh ! I remember .
Keep her away from me, Mrs. Tippens Mrs.

Tippens, won't you keep her away that
dreadful woman, you know ? "
" She's a bit light-headed," said her sister ;
" I'm sure Bob had better go for the doctor . "
" I don't think there's any need , " answered
Mrs. Tippens, quietly enough, though her very
heart seemed to stand still at the words.

"There's nobody shall come near you, dear ,
but Susie and me. Don't be looking about
the room that way- indeed, there's no one
here but your sister and myself."
" She has long grey hair, streaming over
her shoulders . Oh ! the wickedest face I ever
did see . I know her well , don't you , Mrs.
""
Tippens ?
" Yes, yes, dear ; but never mind her now ;

keep yourself quiet."
" She must be the smallest woman in the
world," this after a moment's silence ; " when I
turned from the cupboard I felt like a rush of

cold air, and then she stood on the top step
but one ."
"I think she would be the better for
some sort of quieting draught," remarked

Mrs. Tippens , sotto voce, to Susan Hay—and it
is no disparagement of a courageous woman's
courage to say, after Susie left the room she

looked fearfully around, while Mrs. Pendell
rambled on about the dreadful sight which had
struck her down like one dead.

" I have seen people in their coffins, who
didn't look half so death-like," she whispered ; " she was that dark, and her face and
her eyes were so fierce, and her arms SO
shrivelled, and her hands SO like claws

going to make a clutch at me ; and she had
a red mark round her throat , as if she had
been wearing a necklace too tight."
" Did she say anything to you ? " Mrs.
Tippens forced herself to ask.

" No ; she was just going to speak when
I screamed out with horror . Shall I ever forget her ? -ever-ever ! " and she buried her
head despairingly in the pillow.
66 do you find
Well, Polly, lass, how
yourself now ? " said Mr. Pendell, coming

into the room at this juncture, and causing
a welcome diversion at least to Mrs. Tippens'
fancy. " You're getting all right now, aren't

you ? Ah ! I felt afraid what was coming ;
did I say to you , or did I not , on this side
of Whitechapel church, ' You've been a overdoing of it, Mary ; you'll have a turn of them
spasms to-morrow ? "

For answer Mary only put her hand in her
husband's and lay strangely still and quiet .
"Bob has gone for the doctor," proceeded
Mr. Pendell, nodding across at Mrs. Tippens .
In replying, Mrs. Tippens looked at the
patient and then nodded back at him.
Before morning broke Mrs. Pendell had
brought a child prematurely into the world .
That she lived and the baby lived the doctor
assured Mr. Pendell was owing entirely to
Mrs. Tippens' extraordinary devotion and excellent nursing ; and Mr. Pendell declared solemnly
to Mrs. Tippens he would never forget her goodness-" night or day, she had only to say what
she wanted , and he would be quite at her
service" -a promise he found it convenient to
forget when evil days fell upon Dick and his
wife.
While these events and exchanges of amenities
were passing, there happened a curious experience to Mrs. Tippens one night while she was
off duty .
Her husband was out on " a late job," and
had told her not to sit up for him ; and Mrs.

Tippens having undressed and said her prayers,
and placed a box of matches where she could
instantly lay hand upon it, was about to
blow out the candle and step into bed , when
from the little room at the end of the passage,
there came a chorus of " Mother! MOTHER !
MOTHER ! " which caused her, without making

any addition to her toilet beyond instinctively
thrusting her bare feet into a pair of her
husband's slippers, to snatch up the candle
and rush to the place where her children
slept.
" Now then, what is all this noise about ! " she
asked, seeing they were every one alive and each
sitting bolt upright in bed . Theoretically Mrs.
Tippens was nothing if not a disciplinarian , but
the young ones twisted her round their little
fingers for all that. " You'll bring all the lodgers
down ; I have a great mind to give each of you
a good whipping."
""
" There was a woman in the room, mamma !'
said Mrs. Tippens's second-born.
" And she came and touched me," added the
youngest of the trio.
"Yes, that she did, I see her," exclaimed the
eldest son ; " a little woman with hair hanging
about her like yours, only grey and not so long,
and with eyes as black as Lucy's new doll's, the
one Mr. Pendell gave her, and as dark as that

man with the white turban we saw in the Strand ,
""
and-

" Hold your tongue this instant , and never let
me hear your nonsense again , " interrupted Mrs.
Tippens, angrily. " You had too much pudding

for supper, that's what the matter is with you ,
and you got the nightmare and woke up
thinking you saw all sorts of things."
"But we couldn't all have had nightmares ,"
persisted Dick , who was a sturdy lad , and his
father's pride and hope ; " I saw her go up to
Effie and lay her hand on her. "
" I was cold, too," supplemented the child .
" And I saw her as well," capped Lucy, fearful of lagging behind the others in this little
matter of renown and glory.
"You are very naughty children ," answered
Mrs. Tippens, in a superior sort of tone ; then ,
descending to details," it is so very likely,
Dicky, you could see anyone in the dark . "
" Oh, but she brought a light with her, a sort
of a lamp ."

At this point Mrs. Tippens collapsed . If old
Mrs. Jones were able, not merely to go wandering
about a house for which she paid no rent or
taxes, but also to find her own light, what other
feat might that lady not be expected to perform ?
" Now, never let me hear any more of such
folly," she said, however, valiantly, upon the

principle that most noise is to be got out of an
empty barrel ; " I'll turn the key in the door,
and then you'll know nobody can get in."
'No, leave the key inside , and I'll lock
the door, and then , if she comes again, I'll
holloa."
" You'd better not," retorted his mother ,
so sharply that Dick, discomfited , wrapped
the bedclothes about his head, and twisting
himself up like a hedgehog, lay, repeating
in a sort of rhyme, the description of the

woman who had broken in upon his rest .
That Mrs. Tippens did not sleep much
during the course of the night— no , not even
when her husband was snoring by her side,
and the children had long sunk into slumber—
will be readily imagined .

CHAPTER III.

FEW things had ever caused more excitement
in a neighbourhood than the disappearance of Doctor and Mrs. Jones . Here to-day
and gone to-morrow ; gone, without beat of
drum or sound of fife ; gone, without the
excitement of furniture moving, or cab laden
with luggage, or funereal pomp and ceremony ; even a one-horse hearse, without

plumes or mutes, or decorous wands, or long
black cloaks, or hat-bands, or mourning coaches
to follow, would have been better than this
silent, mysterious flitting.
If the earth had suddenly opened and
swallowed up husband and wife they could
not have vanished more utterly. There was

the house they had lived in, but where were
they ?
What secret did that one night hold which all
the intelligence of the whole parish failed to elucidate . Where was he ? What was more to the

point, where was she? Upon this last question.
public opinion at length became unanimous.
She was buried in the cellars . Her husband had

murdered her- so it was finally decided - and
after killing the “ poor dear," had disposed
of her remains in the manner indicated . That
an industrious course of digging and grubbing
brought no body or bones to light proved
nothing but that " the doctor was a deep one,"
to quote the observations of local wiseacres .
" He used her cruel in her lifetime," said one .
66' Ay, that he did ," capped another . " And

he wouldn't give her the chance of Christian
burial . She's lying hidden away in some dark
corner ; no wonder the creature can't rest

there. No ; I wouldn't sleep a night in that
house, not if you counted me down a hundred
pounds in golden sovereigns."
""
" Neither would I, was it ever so .'
“ For there's not a doubt she walks . "
" Of course she does . Didn't my own cousin ,
when she was coming along the passage one
summer's night, feel like an icy wind at the
nape of her neck, and as if a cold hand

was laid flat on her shoulder ? and she always
says she knows if she had looked round,
she'd have seen the old woman with her grey
hair-
"That he used to drag her about by- "
" Streaming down her back, and her eyes,
filled with hunger and ill- treatment , staring
through the darkness ."

" The house ought to be pulled to the
ground-that's what ought to be done with
it-"
" And not one stone left on another-

" And those cellars thoroughly examined ."
" It's my belief there's some secret place in
them that hasn't been found out yet."
"Very likely. You know it is reported there
used to be a passage big enough for a man
to creep along from there to the Thames."
"Bless and save us-maybe he has put her
in the river."

" No , no ; though he was wicked enough
for that or anything else , she's in the house
somewhere right enough, and if she could
,‫د‬
speak she would say so .'
"I wonder where he is ? "

" Lord knows. Enjoying himself, most likely,
beyond the seas."
" I suppose he was about the worst man
you ever knew. "
66 suppose he was about the worst man
anybody ever knew."
" And the cleverest ."

"Aye, he had brains to do anything, but
they all turned to wickedness ."
It often happens that a man obtains a

reputation for talent in his own immediate
circle on very slight and insufficient grounds ;
$ 2

but in the case of Dr. Jones, popular rumour

did not exaggerate the missing gentleman's
abilities .
He was very clever, indeed . He was so

clever he might have risen to almost any
height in his profession , had he not been at
once lazy and self-indulgent . His father having
lived and practised before , he succeeded to a
prosperous business and a wide connection .
When he first started on his own account, all the
old houses in the street where he lived , and all
the old houses in many many other streets and
squares and terraces and groves near at hand,
were inhabited by well-to-do City people, by
widows amply dowered, by men who had
made their money in trade and were now

living in affluent retirement.
It was a capital parish for a doctor to
settle in ; none of your new neighbourhoods ,
tenanted by mere birds of passage ; once a
medical man got a patient he had a chance
of keeping him for many years . There were
names on Dr. Jones ' books of people and
families who had been physicked by the
Jones for more than half a century . Never a
man began life under more auspicious circumstances .
He had the medical ball at his feet . Old
ladies adored him, because he ordered them

exactly what he knew they liked in the way
of eating ; old gentlemen were quite sure he
understood their complaints, when he declared
" a few glasses of sound wine could hurt no
one." He met the best physicians and surgeons
in consultation , and people agreed if any man
could put a person on his legs again, that
man was Dr. Jones .
But as time went on, and Dr. Jones waxed
more prosperous and less careful, it was found
that, spite of his many admirable virtues, he
had grave faults . In no single respect did
his moral character attain to that high standard
which a doctor, above all other men, ought to
try to reach . Things were whispered about him
which mothers felt could not be spoken of
before the younger members of the family ;
things indeed, which were, even among matrons,
mentioned with chairs drawn close together,
and bated breath and much uplifting of eyes
and hands.

Fact is, the decency and restraint of respectable English society had become intolerable
to the successful practitioner. For a long time
he contented himself with sowing his bad
wild oats at a distance from his dwellingdrinking, gambling, and leading the loosest of
lives in the many disreputable haunts to be
found on the north side of the Thames , instead of frequenting those in his own county
of Surrey. But by degrees he began to fall
into evil habits near home ; then into the
midst of that very sanctuary presided over by
a maiden sister of uncertain age and rigid
morality, he introduced all manner of wickedness.

The day came when Miss Jones could endure
the drinking and the smoking and the cardplaying and the boon-companions no longer.
With a certain stately dignity she packed up
her belongings and left the house where she
had been born . Further, she employed a

lawyer to disentangle her pecuniary affairs
from those of her brother. Then all their little
world knew dreadful things must be going on
at Dr. Jones'. His character, or rather lack
of character, was discussed both by church and
chapel goers. His doings added a fresh zest to
parish visiting, for of course the poor knew
even more about the doctor's sins than their
betters . His tastes led him to prefer bold ,
flaunting women to their more modest, if not
less frail, sisters ; and the brazen impudence
of the dreadful creatures " he successively

selected for housekeepers furnished as constant
a theme for comment and gossip as the shortcomings of Doctor Jones himself.

" He wants a wife to steady him ," said

one lady, whose daughter had been marriageable for nearly a third part of the time

allotted by the Psalmist to man's sojourn on
earth .
Alas ! poor soul, her wishes blinded her. All
the wives of all the patriarchs could not have
steadied Dr. Jones . He had started on a muck,

and was running it blindly, like one possessed .
Had he lived in the former days, one might
have said that not one devil merely but a
legion had taken for habitation the handsome
fleshly temple of his body.
In the way of open sin, unblushing, audacious
wickedness , no medical man, perhaps , ever vied
with Dr. Jones.

His house, after his sister's departure , became
a scandal and a reproach, and yet so great
was the doctor's skill, he had still patients, and
good paying patients too, but they were all
of his own sex ; the man did not live who
could have sent for him to attend wife , or
sister , or mother, or daughter.
So his family practice slipped into other
and cleaner hands, and another and wiser
general practitioner grew rich upon Doctor
Jones ' leavings .
All at once society was amazed by the

rumour that the Doctor was going to be
married to a lady possessed of great wealth ;

so report said, adding, that ere long wonderful changes might be looked upon in the old
house.

It was swept and garnished at any rate,
the drawing-room smartened up, a brougham
purchased, the latest and most utterly objectionable housekeeper dispatched about her
business, whatever it might be, two respectable servants engaged, a man hired to look
after the horse, answer the door, and prove
a general credit to the street. Doctor Jones
himself left off smoking pipes and took to cigars
instead ; he eschewed the local public houses,

foreswore billiards, all packs of cards were
cleared out of the dwelling ; he washed, he
shaved ; he wore a coat instead of a dressinggown, and he was to be found , by such patients
as desired to see him, before twelve o'clock,
till which time he had of late been in the habit
of taking his rest in bed.
Things were looking up ; the Mrs. Jones who
was to be had, people felt , already achieved
wonders ; she was a credit to her sex ; ladies
admitted they could not possibly ever have the
husband again as a medical man , but they

might once more receive him as an acquaintance .
Prodigals are always interesting, perhaps because
no one ever really believes they will reform ,
and Doctor Jones was a specially delightful

prodigal so clever, so handsome, so reckless , sc
wicked , so extravagant .
He had studied at one time at a German
University, and it had somehow been ascertained that no wilder spirit ever troubled the
peace of the quaint old town that lay under the
shadow of the frowning castle .
His world which , a short time previously,
failed to find words strong enough to express
its reprobation of his conduct , now began to
make excuses for him. Perhaps his faults had
been exaggerated , possibly there was only a
modicum of truth in the reports which had
been spread abroad concerning his doings :
clever men always make enemies, the tattle of
the lower orders could not be exactly depended
upon ; and in fine, to put the matter in a
nutshell , it was at length unanimously decided
to call on Mrs. Jones when she returned from
the honeymoon .
There was something after these visits for
gossips to talk about ! What countrywoman
could she be?-where had he met her ?--what
was she ? -who was she ? -what had she been ?
Years seem to stretch between her and the
doctor on the wrong side, of course.
She was little, she was old , she was plain ,

she was ignorant , and she was most furiously
jealous. She could not endure her husband to

look at or speak to any other woman . Even the
elderly unmarried daughter of her mother, who
was a widow, who would have liked Seraphina
to undertake the doctor's case, even this innocent ewe lamb seemed unbearable to the
bride.
No use now to think of pleasant little parties,
to which Mrs. Jones and her reformed husband

might be bidden . No card-tables , no carpetdances, no snug dinners, no safe and harmless
social intercourse, which it had been hoped
might prove to the repentant doctor as refreshing and non-intoxicating as a course of milk,
lemonade, and cocoa to the once infuriated
drunkard .

On the whole, perhaps, the matrons, in their
hearts , thought Mrs. Jones ' virtues worse than
her husband's vices ; tacitly it was agreed not to
force aquaintanceship on her. Possibly she had
her own set of friends , and it was felt it would
be most undesirable to introduce foreigners of
no respectable colour into the bosom of British
families who had made their money in the City,
as everybody knew ; and who piqued themselves upon the strictness of their morals, the
length of their purses, and the strength of their
prejudices.
One gentleman, whose own face was as rosy
as a peony, declared , with a mild asseveration ,

"Jones had married a blackamoor ; " but Mrs.
Jones was not black, only exceedingly brown, so
brown that if she darkened much more, as time

went on, she bade fair eventually to outvie the
rich splendour of the old Spanish mahogany
chairs, which had been recovered and repolished to do her honour.

CHAPTER IV.

T the end of little more than three years
AT
from the date of his marriage, it might
have been truly said of Doctor Jones that his
last state was worse than his first. How many

demons eventually took up their habitation
within him it would be impossible to say ; but
the doings of the Jones' household , more particularly the doings of its master, became a terror
and reproach to the neighbourhood .
How the case really stood no one ever exactly
knew ; all sorts of rumours and stories passed
from mouth to mouth . She would not give him
a shilling of her money, so gossip averred . He
had stood over her with a cutting whip to
compel her to sign papers, and then she would
not ; a mode of proceeding on the part of
Doctor Jones to practice before witnesses , which
was, to say the least of the matter, unlikely.
Popular report asserted he starved her ; but as
she generally answered the street-door herself,
was free to walk in and out if she pleased ,
and could have told any tradesmen to bring
her anything she fancied, this was evidently a

libel. At one time an idea got abroad that the
whole tale of her fortune had been a myth ;
that the Doctor had been taken in , and that
there were dreadful quarrels between them in
consequence ; but the boastings of various
servants who declared they had seen her with
" rolls on rolls " of bank-notes and with such
diamonds and rubies as the " Queen of Sheba or
Solomon himself could have had nothing more
splendid," negatived the truth of this statement.
Money or no money, however, the Jones'
were a miserable couple . Mrs. Jones could not
and would not endure a female servant about
the house ; as fast as they were engaged they
went, a fortnight was a long time for any woman,
young or old, to stop in the situation , and so ere
long the house acquired that look of dirt and
neglect some houses seem especially able to
assume at the shortest notice . Little more than

three years married and already the grass growing between the stones in the stable yard
was nearly a foot high . The high - stepping horse
had long been sold , and the brougham also ; the
new piano never opened, followed suit ; and
about the same time Doctor Jones, giving up all
idea of reformation and practice, and abandoning the rôle of a repentant prodigal, returned
to his swine and his husks on the Middlesex side

of the river ; for he could not enjoy even such

companionship and diet on his own side of the
water, for fear Mrs. Jones might take it in her
head to mar with her presence the delights of
a evening in some low public house or lower
music hall, or lower depth still ; for, if all
stories were to be believed, the Doctor went

down very low indeed . Accordingly, when
Christmas, for the fourth time after that inauspicious and, as some people went so far as
to say, unchristian marriage, was approaching ,
people felt Doctor Jones had run about the
length of his tether.
A change of some sort seemed imminent. He

was in debt in the neighbourhood , a thing he
had never been known to be in before . Even the

few things sent into that evil house were not
paid for, and hitherto the Doctor's credit had
been so good that he owed in the neighbourhood more than might otherwise have been the
case .
Mrs. Jones said she would not pay, and the
Doctor said he could not. Nevertheless, after
some parley, he promised to do what he could
after Christmas-this was remembered afterwards, and the British tradesman , easily
irritated easily appeased, departed .

No joint, no turkey, no anything was ordered
in for the 25th of that December. " Let him

get his Christmas dinner where he gets his other

dinners ," said Mrs. Jones , in answer to a feeble
remonstrance from the crone who came in daily
6:
to put the place a bit to rights," a woman so
old , so wrinkled , so ugly, so dirty and so shabby
that even Doctor Jones, his wife felt, was unlikely
to chuck her under the chin , or exchange with
her repartees more remarkable for wit than
refinement. Apprised in due time of the fare
he might expect at home, the once again unreformed prodigal announced his intention of
accepting an invitation he said he had received

to dine at a friend's house on Christmas Day.
Mrs. Jones tried hard to ascertain where this
friend lived, but in vain, and still firm to her
intention of providing no feast , even for herself,
she told Mrs. Jubb, the charwoman , to bring in
the tea tray and the kettle , and then to go .
About the events of that day and evening and
the following morning Mrs. Jubb had afterwards
much to tell, and she told it.
" As I come up from the kitchen ," she was
wont to observe, " and an awful kitchen that was
too, full of black-beedles and slugs-just as I got
on the top of the stairs, I saw the master, with
his thick coat on , brushing his hat . He put it
on and he took his umbrella, and he opened the
door and slammed it after him, and that was the
last I ever see of Doctor Jones. I took the
tea-things into the drawing-room, and set the

kettle on the hob, and I asked Mrs. Jones if she
was sure I could not do anything else before I
went.

" She said, " Quite sure, Mrs. Jubb ; good
evening . '
"I had a sort of feeling on me, I did not like to
leave her, though I knew John's children would
be crying for me at home ; and so I made believe
to be putting the cup and saucer and plate nearer
to her hand, and she looked round in her quick
way, and asked sharp, as if I had angered her :
" Didn't you hear me say,' ' good evening,'
Mrs. Jubb. You can go .'
" So I went, and that was the last I ever saw
of her. Goodness only knows where they both
went to . It was not the next day, but the next
day but one, the police got into the house
through a window at the back that was left
half an inch open (for I went down to the
station, and told the inspector I was sure as sure
murder had been done, for I could not make
anybody hear, and the gas was burning, and the
cat, poor thing, mewing inthe area, and not
another sign of life about the place) ; and there
they found the tray just as I'd left it, and the
fire out and the kettle on the hob, and high or
low, in garret or cellar, not a trace of Doctor or
Mrs. Jones . "

There was nothing which gratified Mrs. Jubb's

numerous friends and acquaintances more than
to get her started on this theme.
The story was one which, properly managed,
lasted for hours . Mrs. Jubb's feelings, Mrs.

Jubb's doings, Mrs. Jubb's sayings, the remarks
of the police, the fury and dismay of the
tradespeople , and the many observations of the
sprightly youth and beauty and strength of the
neighbourhood, enabled the narrative to be spun
out almost to the length of a three volume
novel.

" And after all , where did Doctor and Mrs.
Jones go ? " once asked an impatient and inquisitive auditor, who chanced to be listening
for the first time to the oft-told tale .
" That'll never be known on this earth ,"
answered Mrs. Jubb ; " my own notion is, she
""
started to follow him-
" Then she can't be buried in the cellars,"
interposed another.
" You don't know what a man like that could
do," said Mrs. Jubb ; " why even now, poor as I
am, I wouldn't live in the house as them

Tippenses are doing, no , not if you paved the
hall with golden guineas. "
" There's nobody going to tempt you , mother,"
remarked an incredulous youth ; " I'd chance
meeting all the ghosts out of the churchyard ,
let alone old Mrs. Jones, for a ten-pound note ."
T

" You don't know what you are talking
about, Jim ," retorted Mrs. Jubb .
" Well , it was a queer start any way," returned
the undaunted Jim ; " the Kilkenny cats left their
tails behind them, but the Doctor and his wife
took away every bit of their bodies- "
" And left clothes, and furniture , and bedding ,
and china, and plate , and linen, and all, just as if
they had walked out of the house to spend a day
at a friend's."
Which statement was, indeed , literally true ;

when the police entered the house they found
no corpse, no confusion, no symptom of murder
or premeditated departure. Nothing seemed
to have been removed except the master and
mistress , who had not taken with them even the
typical " comb and toothbrush."
They were gone. Doctor Jones' creditors
drew their own conclusions ; the wealthy and
respectable inhabitants did not know what to
believe or think ; the police felt disposed to
consider the whole affair a make-up between
the doctor and his wife ; the general public, as
usual, were not to be convinced by argument,
or confounded by facts, they preferred to
believe old Mrs. Jones had been murdered and

her body what they called " put away," somewhere about the premises . Shortly after there
followed a rumour of hidden treasure, then

it was known for certain that the house was
haunted , and, further, that no one who tried
to live in it, but was visited by some misfortune .
When the wind howled outside her dwelling,
and shook the casements , and whistled through
the key-holes , and the rain beat against the
windows with a noise like slapping with an open

hand, it was a dear delight to gossips to gather
round Mrs. Jubb's fire , to which most who came
contributed a billet and hear the whole story

again, with additions of what hal happened
to those venturesome enough to try conclusions
with old Mrs. Jones, out of the flesh.
" She was an awful woman to have much say

to when living," said Mrs. Jubb ; " dead, she'll
""
be a thousand times worse .'
" I wonder what she wants wandering about
the old house," said the irrepressible Jim ; " if all
accounts are true, she was none so happy in
it."
" Ah, she knows that best herself, and she's
not going to tell," returned Mrs. Jubb . "I
wouldn't like to see her, that's all. "

T 2

CHAPTER V.

To say that Mrs. Tippens wished to leave the
по house when her lodgers and children began

to see visions is but to say she was a woman .
She told her husband she " didn't know how
she felt," which meant, as he was too well aware,
that she desired to move . She likewise casually
mentioned that " she seemed all nerves," and that
""
" she was getting afraid of her own shadow.'
To this Mr. Tippens replied he was very sorry,
but he hoped she would try and pull herself
together a bit, and not be frightened by a lot
of lying stories. If they only held their tongues
and stayed in the house for a while, people would
soon quit talking about old Mrs. Jones, and then
.
their lodgers would remain and not give notice
because a door creaked .
He reminded her how he was answerable for

the rent for three years, that he was not likely
ever to get such cheap and convenient premises
again, and he implored her, like a good girl, not
to be foolish and believe the house was haunted

just because a parcel of old women , with Mrs.
Jubb at their head, chose to give it a bad name .

" But Dick," remonstrated Mrs. Tippens, " you
know it is said that nobody thrives who stops
here. There was old Mrs. Smith broke her leg in
two places, and Mrs. Curtiss's child was run over
in the street ; and Mr. Perks, that was SO

respected, fell to robbing his employer, and is
in jail now for taking more than a hundred
pounds. And John Coombe turned teetotaller,
and took to beating his wife -and-
Mr. Tippens laughed outright. " Make your
mind easy, Luce, ” he said ; " I'm not likely either
to turn teetotaller or take to beating you, lass ;
and as for the children , if you don't like them
sleeping out of your sight, bring them in here
till you get some of these notions blown off
your mind ; and when the days draw out a
little, you and they shall have a week at
the seaside, and you'll get so strong and well,
you'll laugh at ghosts, and make quite a joke of
old Mrs. Jones . "

Poor Mrs. Tippens ! She only wished her
lodgers could see the joke as well , for they were
always going ; except one old lady in the top
floor, who was blind and slightly deaf not a
soul stopped any time with her.
" I don't know how it is," she said to them,
"for I have never seen anything in the house myself ; whereupon she was told ' she was fortunate ,'
or reminded there were none so blind as those

that would not see,' or assured her turn was
certain to come, ' or advised , ' to clear out of the
house before harm befell her and hers ; ' for it
is just a-tempting of Providence to stop in it,'
said one person .

" Upon the other hand," as Mr. Tippens,
determined to look on the bright side of things,
remarked , " if lodgers were always going they
were always coming ; and you get such long
prices for the rooms, Lucy, they can afford to
stay empty part of a week now and then ; and
see how well the children are, having the yard
to play in, which gives them plenty of air and
keeps them out of the streets ; and you are
stronger and better yourself, and would be hearty
if you would only stir about a bit more and not
sit so constant
constant at your needle." Further,
business with Mr. Tippens was so good he
had been forced to buy another horse, for
which he paid seven pounds. "That very same
horse," he often afterwards stated, " no more nor
a month later I sold, as true as I am standing
here, for twenty guineas . A fare took a fancy
to him and bid me the money, and you may be

sure I didn't say ' no ."
It was, perhaps, on the strength of this
transaction Mrs. Tippens and family travelled to
Southend for the week previously mentioned to
eat shrimps and repair dilapidations , returning to

Doctor Jones's former residence , as Mr.
Tippens declared, "in the best of health and
spirits. "
It was not long, however, after their return
.
before Mrs. Tippens again began to feel her
nerves troubling her. She did not say anything to her husband about the matter, but
she mentioned to a few friends she had

a " sort of weight on her," as if there was
" something wrong, she did not know what,"
and " a fluttering round her heart," and " a
weakness in her limbs," and " a creeping sensation at the back of her neck, when she came
along the passage, as though, on the warmest
day a chill , clammy hand was laid there ,"
after which lucid description of symptoms , the
whole question of old Mrs. Jones was again
thoroughly gone into ; the statements of all
the lodgers repeated in extenso, and the gossip
current in the neighbourhood retailed for the
twentieth time.
Small marvel that when, after these conversations, almost exhaustive as they were, of the
Jones topic, Mrs. Tippens, returning to her house ,
felt a " waft of raw air " meet her the moment

she opened the street door, and something
"brush along the hall after her," as she passed
into the sitting-room. She was braver than

most women, and would, had she seen anything tangible, have tried to solve the enigma.
But this pursuit by a shadow, this terror of the
unseen, the feeling that there was a presence
in the room with her which yet eluded her
sight, began to prey both on her mind and body.
She longed to cry out, " Take me away from
this evil house or I shall die ;" but when Dick
entered, his honest face radiant with smiles,
his tongue ready to tell of the gentlemen who
had hired him to drive them to Chiswick, and
given him about four times his proper fare,
and some present in his hands for " Luce, old
girl," the words died away on her lips, and
she could only thank Dick for thinking so
constantly about her, and hang round his neck
with a fervour Mr. Tippens was not accustomed
to from a somewhat undemonstrative wife.

"Who do you think I have had a letter
from ? " he asked one morning in the early summer, as he came in to breakfast, after a stroll
down the street in search of a dried haddock or
something savoury for Luce, who " seemed a bit
peaked and off her feed ," -Luce cannot speak of
those days, and of her husband's constant thought
for her now, without tears- " why, from my
cousin, Anne Jane ; I met the postman- and
Luce, I couldn't get anything worth buying for
you, only a nasty kipper, but I thought kippers
were better than nothing, as you're tired of

rashers ; well , as I was saying, I met the postman, and he gave me a letter from Anne Jane.
Her mistress and the whole family are going

abroad, but they are keeping on Anne Jane,
you see, though she doesn't go with them .
While they are away she has a fancy for a
change. She's tired of the sea and Brighton ,
and thinks she'd like to spend her holiday
in London, so she writes to ask if we can take
her in ; she wants to pay for her board and
lodging, but of course that's all nonsense ; I
shouldn't let my uncle's daughter pay a halfpenny for bread as long as I had a penny roll ;
what do you say, Luce ? Shall I tell her to
come ; she's a good girl, as you know, and
a quiet, and she'd be company for you while I
am away. What d'ye say, girl ? "
" I'd be only too glad for her to come , Dick ;
but where is she to sleep ; we could only give
her the room at the end of the passage, and--"
"If that's all, make your mind quite easy ; she
doesn't come of a family which trouble themselves about what you can't lay hold of. Then

you're agreeable to have her, my girl ; if you're
not, just say the word-
" I can't tell you how pleased I should be to
""
have her, only-
" I'll make that all right, old woman," and
accordingly that very same day Dick went out

and bought three sheets of note paper for a
penny, and three envelopes for the same price ;
and in the silent seclusion of the stable, while

the horsekeeper was away for his dinner,
indited an epistle to his cousin , in which he
assured her of a warm welcome ; of his determination not to take a farthing of her hardearned wages, and of Lucy's delight at the
prospect of showing her the London sights .
My wife's the best wife ever lived ," he
finished, " but she's a bit down at present, and
I know you'll cheer her up.
" So no more at present, from your loving
cousin,
" R. TIPPENS.

" P. S. I hope you're not afraid of ghosts , for folks
will have it this house is haunted, though neither
Luce or myself have ever seen anything worse
nor ourselves ."

All in good time Miss Anne Jane Tippens
arrived at the house tenanted by her cousins
from London Bridge Station in a four-wheeler, on
the top of which appeared a trunk, encased in a
neat holland cover, bound with red, the handiwork of Anne Jane, who paid the cabman his
exact fare duly ascertained beforehand , and
walked in the hall old Mrs. Jones was supposed
to haunt, laden with all the impedimenta
perishable creatures of the frailer sex are so

fond of carrying whithersoever they go - a
withered nosegay, a basket filled with seaweed
and shells , a bandbox, another paper-box,
oblong, and a few paper parcels were amongst
the baggage ; but at length everything was
stowed away in the room Doctor Jones had used
as a surgery, and Mrs. Jones stood surveying
the " very genteel figure " of her husband's
cousin , as that young person , after refreshing
laving of her dusty face, stood before the glass,
" doing up " her hair.
Miss Tippens was the incarnation of the ideal
sewing-maid in a good family.
Tall, but not too tall ; thin, but not too thin ;
with pallid face, brown eyes, thick hair brushed
back, and tightly plaited till it looked of no
account, not pretty or ugly, quiet of movement, soft of voice ; a good girl who -- at last
her toilet finished - turned to Mrs. Tippens and
said :

" Now, dear, you'll let me help you all I can
while I stay here ."

2S4 OLL MRS. JONES.

CHAPTER VI.

NEVER told her one single word about
“I
old Mrs. Jones ; there seemed a spell on
me," said Mrs. Tippens, using the approved
formula of her class, when speaking, subsequently, concerning the events which rendered
Miss Tippens's visit memorable. " That very

first day as ever was she said, with that still ,
sort of laugh of hers, Dick had warned her
not to come if she felt anyways shy of ghosts ; I
have always had rather a wish to see a ghost ,'
she went on, making my very blood run cold
with the light way she talked, and maybe old
Mrs. Jones listening to her for aught I could tell ,
' What sort of a ghost is it you keep here ,
Lucy ?
" There has been a lot of chatter about the
house, ' I made answer, but I don't say anything on the subject indoors for fear of the
children being frightened . People pretend
there is something not right in the place, but
nothing has come Dick's way or mine either ;
and then I began talking of something else and
Anne took the hint ; she was a wonderfully

wise, prudent sort of girl, as girls have to be
who get into high families and want to keep
their situations . "

The day following Miss Tippens ' arrival was
devoted to showing her some of the London
sights . She had been in London before, but
only for a short time when " the family " came
up to town, and she being kept hard at work
under the eye of an exceedingly strict housekeeper was unable to see any of the wonders of
the metropolis , except Kensal Green Cemetery,
concerning which cheerful place she spoke with
a good deal of enthusiasm . As a foretaste of
the delights to come, Mrs. Tippens took her to
the Abbey, showed her the exterior of the
Houses of Parliament, the National Gallery,
Northumberland House, the fountains in Trafalgar Square, Covent Garden, Somerset House,
Temple Bar, St. Paul's, and the Monument. By
the time they had arrived at Fish Street Hill ,
Anne Jane was tired out , and declining to
climb Pope's " tall bully," asked Mrs. Tippens
if they were very far from home, " because,"
she added , " I don't think I can walk much
more. "
"Dear me ! " cried Mrs. Tippens, " I ought to
have remembered you were not over strong ;

why you look fit to drop . We'll go down to
the pier and take the boat straight back, and

you can rest all day to-morrow, for I shan't be
able to stir out, as our first-floors are leaving,
and I must see about getting the rooms fit
for any one to see .'
"You'll sleep without rocking to-night, young
woman," observed Mr. Tippens , as they all sat
together over an early supper.
" I always sleep wonderfully sound,” replied
Miss Tippens , stating the fact as if some peculiar merit attached to it.

" And you'd better lie in the morning, and I'll
bring you a cup of tea," said Mrs. Tippens,
kindly hospitable.
"Ay, make her stop a-bed," exclaimed Mr.
Tippens . " I'll be bound she gets none too
much sleep in service . I'd like well , to see a
bit of colour in your cheeks before you leave
us. "
Next morning Mrs. Tippens took a tray, on
which was set out a nice little breakfast , into
her visitor's bed-chamber. Anne Jane did not
look much the better for her night's rest, and
morning's sleep.
" I woke at five," she said , " and then went
off again, and never roused till you came in, and
yet I feel as tired as possible . I am not much
accustomed to walking, and we did walk a long
way yesterday."
" Yes, we went too far," agreed Mrs. Tippens

and then she sat down beside her guest's pillow,
and tucked the sheet under the tray to keep it
steady, and hoped she would relish her breakfast, which Anne declared " she was sure to do,
if only because they were so kind to her.”
" We would like to be kind to you ," said Mrs.
Tippens ; adding, so that no more might be said
on the subject ; “ and you slept well ? "
Yes ; but isn't it funny, all the earlier part of
the night, I was dreaming about a woman being
murdered. It was talking about old times, and
wandering about those ancient places and tombs
and monuments , I suppose, made me think of
such things. I was quite glad to see the sun
shining in at the window when I woke, for oh !
the dream did appear just like reality," and the
dreamer paused to drink a little tea, and take a
bit of bread and butter, and munch a few leaves
of water cress, and taste the delicate slices of
ham Dick himself had cut, what he called,
" Vauxhall fashion ," to tempt his cousin's poor
appetite, while Mrs. Tippens sat silent, afraid ,
she could not tell why, of what might be
coming.
" Dreams are strange things," proceeded Miss
Tippens, after the fashion of a person originating an entirely novel idea, " and mine was
a strange dream ."
"Your tea will be stone cold , dear," interposed Mrs. Tippens. It was but deferring the
evil hour, she felt, yet every moment of delay
seemed a moment gained .

" I don't like it very warm," answered the
other, " and I want to tell you my dream . I
thought I was in a room I had never seen
before, with three windows to the street, and
one long, narrow window that looked out I
didn't know on what. The room was wainscotted about two yards from the floor, well
furnished with chairs and tables ; I could feel
a thick carpet under my feet, and see a
glass over the chimney-piece , in which a
woman was looking at herself. Oh ! Luce ,

she was the strangest woman I ever beheld , so
little, she was forced to stand on a footstool
to see herself in the glass ; she had a brown
face and grey hair, and her dress was unfastened, and a necklace, that sparkled and
glittered, clasped her neck, and she pinned a
brooch, that shone like fire, in the front of
her under bodice ; and on a little table beside her lay an open jewel case, in which
there were precious stones, gleaming like green
and yellow stars ."
"Do eat your breakfast, Anne , and never mind
the dream ; you can tell it to me afterwards."
" There isn't much more to tell," answered
Anne. " All at once she saw in the glass the

door open , and a man come in. With a stifled
scream she jumped down
down from
from the stool,

seized the case, and tried to close her dress
up round her throat, and hide the necklace ;
but he was too quick for her. He said something, I could not hear what ; and then, as
she cowered down, he caught her and wrenched
the case out of her hand, and made a snatch
at the necklace just as she flew upon him,
with all her fingers bent, and uttering the most
terrible cries that ever came out of a woman's

lips -I think I hear them now ; then, in a minute
she fell back, and I could see she was only
kept from dropping on the floor by the tight
grip he had of the necklace. I seemed to know
she was being choked, and I tried to call out,
but I could not utter a sound . I strove to

rush at the man, but my feet felt rooted where
I stood ; then there came a great darkness like
the darkness of a winter's night."
" Let me get you another cup of tea , dear,"
said Mrs. Tippens, in a voice which shook a little
in spite of all her efforts to steady it ; " you've
let this stand so long it is not fit to drink. "
" It it just as I like my tea, thank you ,"
answered Miss Tippens, cheerfully, as she devoted
herself to the good things provided. " What
""
do you think of my dream ?
" That I shouldn't have liked to dream it ,"
U

replied Mrs. Tippens . " Do let me pour you

out some more tea, and then I must run away,
for the first-floor lodgers will be wanting me."
Which was a feint on the part of Mrs. Tippens,
who felt she could not bear to hear anything
more at that moment about the little woman
with the brown face and the grey hair, whose
portrait she recognized too surely as that of
old Mrs Jones.-

" Though why she can't let us, who never did
.
her any harm alone , I can't imagine ," considered Mrs. Tippens. " This is a dreadful
house-true enough, there has been murder
done in it, and the blood is crying aloud for
vengeance. I wonder where that wicked wretch

put her. Oh ! Mrs. Jones, if you'd only tell us
where your poor bones are mouldering, I am
sure Dick would have them decently buried , let
the cost be what it might."
The first-floor lodgers were gone, and the rooms
scrubbed out before Anne Jane, having dressed
and settled up her own bed- chamber, made her
appearance in her cousin's parlour ; but when
she suggested that they might go upstairs and
have a look at the apartments just vacated ,
Mrs. Tippens made the excuse that they were
not exactly in order.
"The charwoman is up there still," she exclaimed ; " she's making half-a-day."

"What a wonderfully nice large house for
Dick to have got," continued Miss Tippens .
" Yes," answered Dick's wife , faintly. There
was nothing to be objected to in the size of the
house, if only Mrs. Jones could have been kept
out of it !
66 If y
ou don't mind my leaving you , Anne , for
half-an-hour , I think I'll just run out and get a
" Suppos
few things we want ," she said. any
ing
one shoul come after the first -floor , Mrs. Burdock can show it ; " which would have been all
very well, had not Mrs. Burdo , t m
ck en inutes
after Mrs. Tippe d , put her head into
ns eparture
the parlou to say that she should like to go home
r
to see to her childre dinner , and , if it made
n's s
no differ , she would come back in the afterence
noon and wipe over the windo a blackl
ws nd ead
the grates . " The rooms are quite clean and
sweet ," she added , " if anybo by chanc do
dy e
come to look at them . "
The children were out in the yard playing ,
the meat was cooking beautifully in the oven ,
the fruit pudding was boiling gently on the
trivet, the potatoes were in the saucepan, ready
to be put on the fire at a certain time which
Mrs. Tippens had indicated ; the street was simmering in the noontide heat of a summer's
day, and Anne Jane, making a frock for the
baby asleep in its cradle, was thinking Lucy's

lines had fallen into very pleasant places, when
there came at the front door a knock , which
she instinctively understood meant lodgers.
They were two young gentlemen , attracted
by the neat appearance of the house, by the
snowy curtains in Mrs. Tippens's room , the
bird-cage hanging in the window, the flowers
in bloom , ranged in pots on the sill .
" Could we see the rooms you have to let ? "
asked the elder, who acted as spokesman .
Certainly, sir ; will you be pleased to walk
in," answered Anne Jane, in her best manner ;

and motioning to the strangers to precede her,
she followed them up to the first floor, where she
flung wide the door of the principal apartment
By Jove ! " exclaimed both men, almost
simultaneously, " who'd have thought there
was such a jolly room in this old house, " and
they walked over to one of the windows and
looked out into the street , and then turned towards the fireplace, and then▬▬
" Hollo ! What's the matter ? " cried the first
speaker, hurrying towards the door against the
lintel of which Mr. Tippens' cousin was leaning,
looking more like a corpse than a living woman .
Here, hand over that chair , Hal, I believe

she is going to faint. "
" No," she gasped ; " no - no-I- shall be
better - directly ."

At that moment, Mrs. Tippens, who had heard
from a neighbour some gentlemen were gone
to look at her rooms, put her key in the

lock and came hurrying upstairs . The first
glance told her what had happened .
My cousin is not very strong, sir ," she said ,
in a voice she tried to keep steady, though she
was trembling in every limb. I'll just take her
into the parlour, and be with you in a moment, if you please."
"Let me help you ," entreated the younger man.
" Take my arm, do - is she subject to attacks of
this sort," he went on , speaking in a lower tone.
" Not that I know of," was the reply. Perhaps, sir," suggested Mrs. Tippens, " you would
not mind looking over the rooms by yourselves. There is no one in but the children ;
I scarcely like leaving my cousin alone . "
" Is there anything you want ? -anything I can
run out and get for you ? " asked the young
fellow, pleasantly. " Do you think that a little
";
brandy
" I have some in the house, thank you , sir,"
answered Mrs. Tippens ; and so at last she got
rid of him, and stood looking at Anne Jane, who,
leaning back in Mr. Tippens' own particular armchair, looked up at her, and murmured, " The
room."
Yes, dear."

" It was the room of my dream."
" I thought as much ."
" Did he kill her there ? "

"Who's to tell ? Nobody knows whether she
is alive or dead, for that matter."

CHAPTER VII.

"NO, sir, I won't deceive you . If you are
wanting rooms, as you say, for a permanency, and think of buying good furniture that
would get knocked about and ruined in moving,
and settling down comfortably in the next
lodgings you take, you had better not come
here ."
Why, are you going to leave the house ?
'My husband is answerable for the rent for
nearly two years longer," replied Mrs. Tippens,
evasively. " No, sir ; it is not that, I wish it
was."

" Have you any infectious illness in the
place ? "
" I'd rather have smallpox, " broke out Mrs.
Tippens, who felt she could endure her trouble
no longer, in silence " we might get rid of that,
but we can't get rid of old Mrs. Jones ."
" Who is she- a lodger ? "
"Worse than the worst of lodgers, sir ; a
lodger can do no more than owe rent, or at the
most take things that doesn't belong to him ;
but Mrs. Jones pays no rent, and wants to live

in every room in the house, and as fast as new
lodgers come and we think we are going to be
a bit comfortable at last, drives them to give
notice. Fever and ague would be small evils

in comparison to old Mrs. Jones, and why she
torments us so I can't imagine, we never did
the woman any injury ; and as for her money, I

am sure if it was lying in bags of gold and
silver at my feet I wouldn't touch a coin of it."
The two men stared at each other in amazement, then the elder said , solemnly :
" In Heaven's name , who is Mrs. Jones ? "
" She was the wife of a Doctor Jones, sir . He
once rented this house . He and she disappeared
the same night, and have never been heard of
since."

" But I thought you said she lived here ? "
No, sir ; I don't know where she lives, if
she is living at all ; but this is the way of it,
one set of lodgers after another say they are
very sorry but they can't stop on account of
old Mrs. Jones . They either meet her on the
stairs, or she takes a chair at the table when
‫ا‬ they are having their dinner, or she goes into
their bedroom with a light in her hand, and
then my cousin must get dreaming about her
and, as you saw, was taken bad the moment she
crossed the threshold of this room. 4 I am sure,

sir, I never did believe in ghosts and such-like

before we came here, but I can't disbelieve now,
after what I've heard ; and so I tell you not to
take the apartments or to go to any expense
buying furniture, for you wouldn't stop-I know
you wouldn't- a fortnight is the longest anybody ever stays now.
"That settles the matter, we'll come , and we'll
stay longer. For my own part I have always
""
rather wanted to see a ghost and——
“ Oh , don't talk that way, please, sir."
"Well, at any rate, we'll pay you for the
rooms for a month certain , and if you can do
our cooking and make us a little comfortable ,
we won't quarrel about terms."
" But I don't think you exactly understand ,
sir."

"Yes I do, and I trust we shall know more
about old Mrs. Jones than we do now, before
we are much older."

" I hope you won't buy good furniture, sir,
till you have been here a few days ; 1 can spare
enough just to make the place tidy for you to
come into," and so it was settled ; the young
men, after saying they should like to take possession the same evening, put a month's rent
and money to provide grocery and so forth into
Mrs. Tippens ' reluctant hand, and departed .
" Let what will happen, they can't say I did
rot warn them ," thought Mrs. Tippens, as she

hurried off to see whether Anne Jane had been
able to attend to the potatoes, or if they were
boiled to pulp .

Meantime the friends, walking along the street
together, remarked , " what a strange-looking girl
that young woman who so nearly fainted ."
" Yes, cataleptic I shouldn't wonder ; did you
notice what a far-away unseeing sort of ex-
""
pression there was in her eyes.'
" I did ; and what a thick white complexion ,
if I may use the term ."
"That is a queer notion about old Mrs. Jones,
we must get Mrs. Tippens up to make tea for us
some night and hear all the rights of the story."
" And I'll take the libertyof putting fresh
locks on the doors ."
"You think it is somebody playing tricks ,
then ? "
" Of course ; what else can it be. You don't
believe in disembodied spirits taking up their
""
abode in brick and mortar houses, I suppose ?
It was a strange thing, as Mrs. Tippens often
subsequently remarked , that from the time the
new lodgers , who were medical students, took
possession of the first-floor, people seemed able to
stay in the other parts of the house. Where old
Mrs. Jones had gone, and what old Mrs. Jones
was doing, could only, Mrs. Tippens felt, be
matter for conjecture ; one comfort, she ceased

to roam about the rooms and wander up and down
the staircase ; there were even times when Mrs.
Tippens, passing through the hall , forgot to
remember that sudden waft of cold air and the

chilly hand laid on the back of her neck ; she
still - force of habit, perhaps instinctively
refrained from looking round , lest she should
encounter the streaming grey hair and dark
face and fierce black eyes of old Mrs. Jones ;
but at the end of a fortnight she began to feel ,
as she expressed the matter, " quite comfortable
and easy in her mind ."
She had said something of this sort one
evening to her cousin, and was waiting vainly
for a reply, when Miss Tippens, without the
slightest apparent reason , burst into a despairing
fit of tears .

" What ! crying ? For the Lord's sake , girl ,
tell me what you are crying for," exclaimed
Mrs. Tippens, " do , Anne, dear, if you are in any
trouble, only trust it to me, and I'll help you
all I can, and so will Dick. Who has vexed
you ? "
"It's- old- Mrs.-Jones," sobbed Anne Jane.
" I have tried hard for your sake, but I can't
bear her any longer ; I must go away—I must-
I shall be a raving maniac if I stop in this
house much longer. Why has she fastened on
me ?" asked Miss Tippens, looking at her relation with streaming eyes. " Oh, Lucy, why

has she left everyone else in the house to give
me no peace of my life -I can't sleep for

dreaming of her she is at my bedside every
night wanting me to do something for her, or
go to some place with her ; and then the whole
day long, I keep trying to remember what she
said and what she wanted , and I can't ; no,

Lucy, for no advantage to you, or any other
human being, can I face the horror of her any
longer ."
At Anne Jane's first words Mrs. Tippens ' work
dropped from her hands on to the floor, and
during the delivery of this address, she remained
gazing at the speaker with a sort of fascinated
terror, then she cried out :

" Oh, dear ! oh, dear ! and just when I thought
we were all settling down so comfortably ; what
an awful old woman. But do you ever see her,
Anne, except when you are asleep ? '
No, but I feel her round and about me.
There's a chilliness blows on my neck, and a
coldness creeps down my spine, and I seem
always to know that there's somebody beside
or behind me ; it's dreadful — if it was to go on,
I'd rather be dead and out of my misery at
oncc. "

" Suppose I made you up a bed somewhere
else," suggested Mrs. Tippens .

"What would be the good ? She's in every
room in the house ; she's up and down the
stairs, and on the roof, and along the parapet,
and-
" Don't talk about her any more, you'll

frighten me," exclaimed Mrs. Tippens.
" And haven't I been frightened . How
would you like to lie in the dark and know
""
a woman-

" Mrs. Tippens , " called a voice , which made
both women jump.
" Law ! " exclaimed Mrs. Tippens, recovering
herself, " you needn't be frightened , Anne , it's
only Mr. Maldon (yes , sir , I'm coming )—I remember he left word with little Lucy, he wanted
to see me before he went out this morning, and
what with one thing and another, I quite forgot
it." Having tendered which explanation , Mrs.
Tippens hurried to the first floor, leaving Anne
Jane sitting with her hands tightly folded , and her
great eyes fixed on vacancy, or - old Mrs. Jones.
" Close the door, if you please, Mrs. Tippens,"
said Mr. Maldon , the elder of her two new
lodgers, as after her apologies for her forgetfulness, the nominal mistress of Dr. Jones' former

residence stood waiting to hear what was
wanted . "For some days past I have wished to

speak to you alone. I only think it right to
""
say-

"Oh ! sir, don't, for mercy's sake, say you've
seen old Mrs. Jones too."

There was such an agony of entreaty in Mrs.
Tippens' voice, the young man who did not
believe in ghosts, and had expressed a wish to
see one, might well have been excused smiling ,
but he did not smile, he only answered .
"No , but I have seen something else . "
"What, sir ? "
" Your cousin wandering about the house in
her sleep ."

" In her sleep ! When , Mr. Maldon ? "
" Well, to go no farther back, last night . I
followed her up to the top of the house , and
she was actually going out on the roof, when I
gently took her by the arm, and walked her
down to her own room again . I am afraid she
may do herself a mischief. I was careful not
to wake her, but if she should be frightened ,
and wake suddenly, no one can tell what accident might happen. From the first I thought
there was something strange in her appearance ,
but I should not have imagined she was a sleepwalker."

" And what should you advise me to do , sir,"
asked Mrs. Tippens, earnestly, for this seemed
to her a dreadful thing. For a respectable
young woman- and she believed and felt certain

Anne Jane to be as respectable a young woman

as ever lived , a wise, prudent, sensible, virtuous.
girl - to go wandering in the middle of the night
about a house in which there were lodgers , and
be handed down the stairs and back to her own

room by any man , young or old , was a matter
which appeared in Mrs. Tippens' eyes so preposterous, so dreadful, she could scarcely realize
it ; she had not courage to enquire the fashion
of the costume in which Anne Jane started to
make her uncomfortable pilgrimage.

" I should advise you to take your cousin to
some good medical man ," said Mr. Maldon ,
answering her spoken question, " there is no
doubt she is from some cause thoroughly out
of health, but meanwhile I should not say anything to her about this walking in her sleep,
only you would do well to take the precaution
of locking her door outside at night."
" Oh ! I couldn't do that," answered Mrs.
Tippens, " if she were my worst enemy, instead
of my husband's first cousin , I couldn't lock her
up in a room alone with old Mrs. Jones."
" Oh ! -old Mrs. Jones ! " exclaimed Mr.
Maldon.

" Begging your pardon, sir, I don't think you
would be right to say that, about the worst of
sinners, let alone a poor, ill used lady that, if all
accounts be true, led a most miserable life in
this very house '

" Yes, yes, that's all very well," interrupted
Mr. Maldon, " but don't you see, my good soul,
this tendency of your cousin's explains the
whole mystery ; gets rid , in fact, of Mrs. Jones
altogether . "
" In what way ? " asked Mrs. Tippens.
" Why only in one way, of course. Your
lodgers had heard the story and thought your
cousin walking in her sleep must be old Mrs.
Jones.

" Yes, sir, but my cousin never entered these
doors till two days before yourself, and for nine
months previous to that my lodgers were fainting and flitting on account of the woman who
came into their room and met them on the
stairs ."
" Is that so ? " said Mr. Maldon , in the tone of
a man who feels his theory has no more substantial foundation than an air castle .

" Yes, sir, it is quite true," answered Mrs.
Tippens, a little triumphantly- since no one
likes to be dispossessed of a point. " Anne

Jane she come up from Brighton the day but
one before you took these lodgings. All the
same, sir, I don't mind telling you that she can't
get rest neither night nor day, because of old
Mrs. Jones."

" Dreams about her, eh ? " suggested the
medical student, with alacrity.

" She has been crying her eyes out just now
because she declares the old lady won't let
her be. Stands at her bedside every night

regular, wanting her to do something Anne
Jane spends her days trying to remember ."
"Really an interesting case, " thought the
future medical man ; who added aloud : " Well ,
Mrs. Tippens, I can but repeat my advice, let
your cousin see a good doctor, and lock her
door on the outside ."

" I am sure, sir, I feel very thankful to you ,"
answered Mrs. Tippens ; and she went downstairs
and tossed up a very pretty little supper for
Dick and her cousin, during the course of which
meal she announced in a laughing way to her
husband, that Anne Jane was not very well, and
felt a bit nervous, and that she , Luce, meant
to sleep with their visitor ; " which information
she accompanied with such sly looks, and such
a world of meaning in her face , that Tippens
looking up from the crab, cucumber, lettuce ,
and vinegar he was eating in disastrous quantities , answered shortly,
" All right, old girl."
Consequently, Mrs. Tippens, for once, leaving
the custody of her children to Dick, after having
cleared away the supper things , retired to rest
with Miss Tippens .
Mrs. Tippens took the side of the bed next the

door (which she locked), and firmly decided
she would not go to sleep that night . For about
an hour, or an hour-and-a-half, she lay awake,
thinking, as she afterwards said, " of all manner
of things," then she " fell over," and did not
awaken till the room was full of the light of a
summer morning's early dawn.
For a moment she could not remember where

she was ; then she remembered , and stretching
out her hand, found the place her cousin should
have occupied empty and cold .
Anne Jane was gone, and Mrs. Tippens rushing to the door found it unlocked .

CHAPTER VI

RS. TIPPENS , assisted by her husband and
MRS
Mr. Maldon and his friend Mr. Whipple,
and one of the second-floor lodgers, who was out
of work, scoured the neighbourhood for Miss
Tippens, and scoured it in vain .
That young
person seemed to have vanished as utterly as
old Mrs. Jones . They sought her high, they
sought her low ; the whole street was in confusion ;
as popular opinion had as yet defined no limit to
the powers possessed by Doctor Jones' wife,
little doubt existed that Anne Jane had been
carried off bodily by the grey-haired lady as an
expiation of the sins of the Tippens' family in
continuing the tenancy of a house on which
it was " well-known a curse rested ."
Who had cursed it, on whom it rested , were
matters considered quite irrelevant to the
general issue . So far sickness had passed over
and misfortune shunned the latest dwellers in

the haunted dwelling . But now it was felt the
day of reckoning had been only deferred in
order to inflict a heavier punishment . Old Mrs.
Jones was about to vindicate herself at last.

" And if you don't get out of the place quick ,”
said Mrs. Jubb, who , during the whole of that
memorable morning, conducted herself after the
manner of some ancient prophetess , " you'll find
far worse follow. I always told you I couldn't
sleep in the house if the hall was paved with
golden guineas . "
"Dick, Dick, " cried Mrs. Tippens, " didn't I
beg and pray of you long ago to move- that
very first night the children saw old Mrs.
Jones ? "

But Dick not being in a fit state of mind
either to argue with his wife, or endure her
reproaches, mounted to the seat of his neat
hansom and drove aimlessly about the streets ,
asking useless questions of persons totally unable
to afford the slightest information as to his
cousin's whereabouts.
About three o'clock, however, Anne Jane ,
in person, appeared at her cousin's door, accompanied by a policeman . Early that morning
she had been found trying to open the garden
gate of a house in the Stratford Road ; as, when
remonstrated with concerning the impropriety of
her conduct, she still continued knocking and
pushing the gate, the policeman seized her left
arm and told her she couldn't be allowed to
make such a noise ; then, for the first time , she
turned her face towards him, and he saw, as

he expressed himself, " there was something

stranger about the matter than he thought."
Immediately it dawned upon his understanding that though the woman's eyes were
wide open, she did not see him, and that she was

not drunk, as he had supposed, but fast asleep .
Therefore he woke her up, and enquired
" what she was doing there at four o'clock in
the morning ? "

The girl's terror when. suddenly recalled to
consciousness , she found herself only partially
dressed, in a road perfectly unknown to her,
held firmly in the grasp of a stalwart policeman ,
was so great as utterly to deprive her of speech .
She tried to collect her senses , she strove to ask
him how she came there, but no word passed
her parched and trembling lips . In a very
agony of shame and distress, she allowed herself
to be led to the station house ; but there, when
addressed by the inspector, she broke into a
passion of weeping, which culminated in a fit of
violent hysterics, that in turn was succeeded by
a sort of wandering the doctor regarded as a
precursor of some severe illness. " The girl is
quite over- wrought," he said ; " I wonder who
this old Mrs. Jones is she talks so much about. "
" Oh ! save me from her-oh , Luce ! -oh , Dick !
don't let her come near me again," at that
moment Anne Jane again cried in terror.

" No, she shan't come near you, we won't
let her," observed the doctor, soothingly ; and
after a time he managed to give this strange
patient a quieting draught.
Anyone," as Mrs. Tippens observed, when
subsequently commenting upon the conduct
of the police, " could see Anne Jane was a
thoroughly respectable girl , who had been carefully brought up," and accordingly she did not
feel so grateful as she ought to have done to the
inspector for sending her cousin home in a
cab.
" She'll be better with her friends than in an

hospital," said the doctor ; and accordingly,
when she recovered sufficiently to mention Mr.
Tippens' address, she was despatched thither
under the care of a staid and respectable member of the force .
But nothing could induce her to enter Dick's
house, till Mrs. Tippens had solemnly promised
at once to go out and find a lodging for her
elsewhere .

" If I sleep here again she'll never rest till
she has killed me," declared the girl ; which
utterance seemed so mysterious to the policeman,
that, pressing for an explanation, he was told
the whole story of " old Mrs. Jones."
" And the young woman solemnly declares ,"
went on the man, who repeated the narrative to

the inspector, " that Doctor Jones ' wife came
to her bedside, and bade her get up and dress,
and opened the door of the room, and the front
door, and made her walk till she was fit to drop ,
through places and streets she had never seen
before, till they came to the garden gate of St.
Julian's ; she passed through that and kept
beckoning her to follow and I know I tried
hard, and then you must have awakened me."
" It's a rather unlikely tale altogether ,"
observed the inspector, but still he kept the
matter in his mind , and thought it worth while
to make a few enquiries and set a detective to
work ; and, had a watch kept on Doctor Schloss ,
the great German chemist, who lived in a very
secluded manner at St. Julian's -the result of

all being that one day a policeman appeared
at the house, and , asking if he could see the
doctor, arrested him on the charge of " Wilful
Murder."
" But this is absurd," said the great chemist ,
speaking in very broken English, " who is it
""
that you make believe I have murdered ?
"Your wife, Zillah Jones ," was the answer,
Whereupon the doctor shrugged his shoulders ,
and enquired who Zillah Jones might be.
Asked if he would come quietly with the
policeman, he laughed, and said , " Oh ! yes. "
Warned that any statement he made would be

used as evidence, he laughed again , and observed
he had no statement of any kind to make.
On the way he conducted himself, as was
remarked, in a very quiet and gentlemanlike manner ; and, arrived at his destination , he requested
to be allowed to sit down, as he did not feel
very well.
"It is a serious charge to bring against an
innocent person, " he said , still speaking in
imperfect English . That was the last sentence
ne uttered . When he was requested to get up ,
he did not stir. He was dead- dead as the
woman whose remains were found, embalmed in
a locked box, in his laboratory at St. Julian's.

No one, however, in the neighbourhood where
Doctor Jones once lived , believed, or could be
pursuaded to believe, Doctor Schloss and Doctor
Jones were one and the same person , or that the
embalmed body was that of old Mrs. Jones.
Nothing will ever shake the local mind in its
conviction that Doctor Jones is still enjoying
existence in " foreign parts," or that his wife
was buried in the cellar of that old-fashioned
house where evil befell all who tried to live .
In proof of which conviction it is still told in
bated breath how Anne Jane was never able to

go back to service, but was forced eventually
to return to her native village, where to this

day she earns a modest living with her needle ;
and how, on the very night of that day when
Mr. Tippens removed his family and goods,
cabs and horses excepted, to a dwelling he had
taken in the next street, where the lodgers

accompanied Mrs. Tippens, a passer-by, looking
up at the old house, saw something like the
figure of a woman, carrying a torch, flit from
window to window, and story to story, and
ere he had time to think what it meant, beheld
flames bursting from every part of the old
building.
Before the engines came the fire had got such
a mastery it was with difficulty Mr. Tippens'
horses were saved , to say nothing of the adjoining
houses.

It was indeed a conflagration to be remembered, if for no other reason than that standing
on the parapet in the fiercest of the fire , a
woman, with streaming grey hair , was seen
wringing her hands in such an apparent agony
of distress , that an escape was put up , and one
of the brigade nearly lost his life in trying
to save her.

At this juncture some one cried out with
a loud voice ,
" It was a witch the doctor married, and fire
alone can destroy her ! "
Then for a moment there fell a dead silence

upon the assembled crowd, while the dreadful
figure was seen running from point to point in a
mad effort to escape .
Suddenly the roof crashed in, millions of
sparks flew upwards from the burning rafters,
there was a roar as if the doors of some mighty
furnace had been suddenly opened, a blaze of
light shot straight towards the heavens, and
when the spectators looked again there was no
figure to be seen anywhere, only the bare walls,
and red flames rushing through the sashless
windows of the house once haunted by " Old
Mrs. Jones ."

THE END .
