THE COACH

It was a lonely part of the country, far north, where the summer
nights are pale and light and scant of shade. This summer night there
was no moon, and yet it was not dark. For hours the flat, deprecating
earth had lain prone under a storm of wind and rain. Its patient
surface was drenched, blanched, smitten into blindness. The tumbled
waters of the Firth splashed on the edges of the plain, their wild
commotion dwarfed by the noise of the wind-driven showers, whose
gloomy drops tapped the waters into sullen acquiescence. Half a mile
inland the road to the north was laid. Clear and straight it ran, with
never a house or homestead to break it, viscous with clay here,
shining with quartz there, uncompromising, exact, like the lists of
old, dressed for a tourney. Its sides were bare, scantily garnished
with grass. This was nearly a hedgeless country. In places the
undeviating line of it passed through a little coppice or clump of
gnarled, ill-conditioned, nameless trees. They seemed to lean forward
vindictively on either side, snapping their horny fingers at each
other, waving their cantankerous branches as the gusts took them,
broke them, and whirled the fragments of their ruin far away and out
of ken, like a flapping, unruly kite which a child has allowed to pass
beyond his control. The broad white surface of the road was not
suffered to be blotted for a single moment. Nothing could rest for the
play of the intriguing air-currents, surging backwards and forwards,
blind, stupid and swelled with pride, till they had got completely out
of hand and defied the archers of the middle sky. They staggered
hither and thither like ineffectual giants; they buffeted all
impartially; they instigated the hapless branches at their mercy to
wild lashings of each other, to useless accesses of the spirit of
self-destruction. Bending slavishly under the heavy gusts, each shabby
blade of grass by the roadside rose again and was on the _qui vive_
after the rustling tyrant had passed.

It was then, in the succeeding moments of comparative peace, when the
directors of the passionate aerial revolt had managed to call their
panting rabble off for the time, that great perpendicular sheets of
rain, like stage films slung evenly from heavenly temples, descended
and began moving continuously sideways, like a wall, across the level
track. A sheet of whole water, blotting out the tangled borders of
herbage that grew sparsely round the heaps of stones with which the
margin was set at intervals, placed there ready for breaking. When the
slab of rain had moved on again, the broad road, shining out sturdily
with its embedded quartz and milky kneaded clay, lay clear once more.
Calm, ordered and tranquil in the midst of tumult and discord, it
pursued its appointed course, edging off from its evenly bevelled
sides the noisy moorland streams, that had come jostling each other in
their haste to reach it, only to be relegated, noisily complaining, to
the swollen, unrecognizable gutter.

At a certain point on the line of way, a tall, spare,
respectable-looking man in a well-fitting grey frock coat stood
waiting. The rain ran down the back of his coat collar, and dripped
off the rim of his tall hat. His attitude suggested some weary
foredone clerk waiting at the corner of the city street for the
omnibus that was to carry him home to his slippered comfort and sober
pipe of peace. He wore no muffler, but then it was summer--St. John’s
Eve. He leaned on an ivory-headed ebony stick of which he seemed fond,
and peered, not very eagerly, along the road, which now lay in
dazzling rain-washed clarity under the struggling moon. There was a
lull in the storm. He had no luggage, no umbrella, yet his grey coat
looked neat, and his hat shiny.

Far in the distance, from the south, a black clumsy object appeared,
labouring slowly along. It was a coach, of heavy and antique pattern.
As soon as he had sighted it, the passenger’s faint interest seemed
diminished. With a bored air of fulfilment, he dropped his eyes and
looked down disapprovingly at the clayey mud at his feet, although,
indeed, the sticky substance did not appear to have marred the
exquisite polish of his shoes. His palm settled composedly on the
ivory knob of his trusty stick, as though it were the hand of an old
friend.

With all the signs of difficult going, but no noise of straining or
grinding, the coach at last drew up in front of the expectant
passenger. He looked up quietly, and recognized it as the vehicle
wherein it was appointed that he should travel in this unsuitable
weather for a stage or two, maybe. All was correct, the coachman,
grave, business-like, headless as of usage, the horses long-tailed,
black, conventional.…

The door opened noiselessly, and the step was let down. The passenger
shook his head as he delicately put his foot on to it, and observed
for the benefit, doubtless, of the person or persons inside--

“I see old Joe on the box in his official trim. Rather unnecessary,
all this ceremony, I venture to think! A few yokels and old women to
impress, if indeed, any one not positively obliged is abroad on a
night like this! For form’s sake, I suppose!”

He took his seat next the window. There were four occupants of the
coach beside himself. They all nodded formally, but not unkindly. He
returned their salutations with old-fashioned courtesy, though
unacquainted seemingly with any of them.

Sitting next to him was a woman evidently of fashion. Her heavy and
valuable furs were negligently cast on one side, to show a plastron
covered with jewels. She wore at least two enamelled and
jewel-encrusted watches pinned to her bosom as a mark for thieves to
covet. It was foolish of her. So at least thought the man in the grey
frock coat. Her yellow wig was much awry. Her eyes were weak,
strained, and fearful, and she aided their vision with a diamond-beset
pince-nez. Now and again she glanced over her left shoulder as if in
some alarm, and at such times she always grasped her gold-net reticule
feverishly. She was obviously a rich woman in the world, a first-class
train-de-luxe passenger.

The woman opposite her belonged as unmistakably to the people. She was
hard-featured, worn with a life of sordid toil and calculation, but
withal stout and motherly, a figure to inspire the fullest confidence.
She wore a black bonnet with strings, and black silk gloves heavily
darned. Round her sunken white collar, a golden gleam of watch-chain
was now and then discernible.

At the other end of the coach, squeezed up into the corner where the
vacillating light of the lamp hung from the roof least penetrated, a
neat, sharp-featured man nestled and hid. His forehead retreated, and
his bowler hat was set unnecessarily far back, lending him an air of
folly and congenital weakness which his long, cold, clever nose could
not dissipate. He was white as old enamel.

But the man whom the gentleman in the frock coat took to among his
casual fellow-travellers was the one sitting directly opposite him, a
rough, hearty creature, who alone of all the taciturn coachful seemed
disposed to enter into a casual conversation, which might go some way
to enliven the dreariness entailed by this somewhat old-fashioned mode
of travelling. Gay talk might help to drown the dashing of the waters
of the Firth lying close on the right hand of the section of road they
were even now traversing, and the ugly roar of the wind and rain
against the windows. This--by comparison--cheerful fellow was dressed
like a working man, in a shabby suit of corduroys. He wore no collar,
but a twisted red cotton handkerchief was wound tightly round his
thick squat neck. His little mean eyes, swinish, but twinkling
good-humouredly, stared enviously at the neat gentleman’s stiff collar
and the delicate grey tones of his suiting. Crossing and uncrossing
his creasy legs, in the unusual effort of an attempt at conviviality,
the man in corduroys addressed the man in the frock coat awkwardly
enough, but still civilly.

“Well, mate! They’ve chosen a rare rough night to shift us on! Orders
from headquarters, I suppose? I’ve been here nigh on a year and never
set eyes on my boss!”

“We used to call him God the Father,” said the elder man slowly.… “But
whoever it is that orders our ways here, there is no earthly sense in
questioning His arrangements, we can only fall in with them. As you
admit, you are fairly new, and perhaps you do not as yet conceive
fully of the silent impelling force that sways us. It is the same in
the world we have left, only that there we were only concerned with
the titles and standing of our ‘boss,’ as you call Him, and obeyed His
laws not a whit. I must say I consider this particular system of soul
transference that we have to submit to, very unsettling and productive
of restlessness among us--a mere survival and tiresome superstition,
to my mind. It has one merit; one sees something of the under world,
travelling about as we do, and meeting chance, perhaps kindred spirits
on the road. One realizes, too, that Hades is not quite as grey, shall
I say, as it is painted! But perhaps,” he added, with a slight touch
of class hauteur, “you do not quite follow me?”

“Oh yes, Master, I do,” eagerly replied the fellow-traveller to whom
he chose to address his monologue. “Since I’ve been dead, I have
learned the meaning of many things. I turn up my nose at nothing these
days. I always neglected my schooling, but now I tell you I try to
make up for lost time. From a rough sort of fellow that I was, with
not an idea in my head beyond my beer and my prog, I have come to take
my part in the whole of knowledge. It was all mine before, so to
speak, but I didn’t trouble to put my hand out for it. Didn’t care,
didn’t listen to Miss that taught me, or to Parson, either. He had
some good ideas too, as I’ve come to know, though Vice isn’t Vice
exactly with us here, now, in a manner of speaking. If God Almighty
made us, why did He make us, even in parts, bad? That’s what I want to
know, and I’ll know that when I’ve been dead a bit longer. Why did He
give me rotten teeth so that I couldn’t chew properly and didn’t care
for my food and liked drink better? It’s dirt and digestion makes
drinking and devilry, I say.”

The smart woman interrupted him with a kind of languid eagerness,
exclaiming--

“I must say I agree with you. Since the pestle fell on my shoulder in
that lonely villa at Monte, I have realized what the dreadful gambling
fever may lead to. It had made those two who treated me so ill, quite
inhuman. They had become wild beasts. I ought never to have accepted
their treacherous invitation to luncheon, never tempted them with my
outrageous display of jewels! And look here, I was tarred with the
same stick, I gambled too----”

She rummaged in her reticule and fished out a ticket for the rooms at
Monte Carlo.

“I always call that the ticket for my execution. Though my
executioners were rather unnecessarily brutal. They will attain unto
this place more easily than I did. Hardly any pain. The hand of the
law is gentle, compared with the methods of----”

The man in the grey frock coat raised his finger warningly. “No names,
I beg. One of our conventions…!”

“Have a drop?” said the calm motherly woman to the excited fine lady.
“Your wound is recent, isn’t it? Yours was a very severe case! A
bloody murder, I call it, if ever there was one, and clumsy at that!
And you only passive, which is always so much harder, they say! I
can’t tell, for I was what you may call an active party. They don’t
seem to mind mixing, they that look after us here! They lump us all
together--travelling, at any rate! Though when I think of what I was
actually turned off for, well--the way I look at it, what I did was a
positive benefit to Society, and some sections of Society knew it,
too, and would have liked to preserve my life.”

“But what, Madam, if I may ask, was your little difficulty?”

“It is called, I believe, Baby Farming,” she replied off-handedly,
receiving her flask back from the smart woman and stowing it away in a
capacious pocket. As she spoke, a shudder like a transitory ripple on
a rain-swept stream passed over her hearers, with the exception of the
thin man in the far corner, who preserved his serenity. Raising his
sunken chin, he observed the last speaker with some slight show of
interest.

The man in grey apologized.

“Excuse us, Madam. A remnant of old-world squeamishness,
uncontrollable by us for the moment. Though perhaps, if you will, you
might a little dissipate our preconceived notions of your profession,
by explaining clearly your point of view.”

“Delighted, I’m sure,” she answered. “Funny, though, how seriously you
all take it, even here! The feeling against my profession seems
absurdly strong below as well as above. I was hooted as I left the
court, I recollect. It annoyed me then considerably. I thought that
those that hooted had more need to be grateful to me if all was known
and paid for. I saved their pockets for them and their lovely honour
too. They knew they owed all that to me. For the rest, they did not
care. They went on, bless ’em, raising up seed for me to mow down as
soon as its head came above ground, and welcome! Sly dogs, no thanks
from them! But those shivering, shrinking women that came to me, some
of them hardly out of their teens, some of them so delicate they had
no right to have a baby at all!--Ah, if only I hadn’t let myself take
their money it would have been a work of pure philanthropy. But I had
to live, then! Now that that tax has been taken off, one has time to
think it out all round. But Lord!--Society, to cry shame on me for it!
They might as well hang any other useful public servant, like dustmen,
rat-catchers, and such-like ridders of pests. Good old Herod, that I
used to hear about at school, knew what he was doing when he cleared
off all those useless Innocents! He was the first baby farmer, I
guess.”

“You take large ground, Madam,” said the man in the frock coat, a
trifle huffily.

“And I have the right,” said she, her large determined chin emerging
from its rolls of fat in her eagerness. “You men ought to know it, and
you do well enough, when you’re honest. I was only the ’scapegoat, and
took on me the little sins of the race. It’s an easy job enough, what
I did, but there’s few have the stomach for it, even then. You
couldn’t call it dirty work either. You just stand by and leave ’em
alone--to girn and bleat and squinny and die.”

“No blood, eh?” the man in the corner said suddenly. “I like blood.”

“What a fine night it has turned!” said the man in the grey frock
coat, raising the sash and putting his head out of the window.…
“Something rather uncanny, eh, about that man?” he remarked under his
breath, half to himself, half to the man in brown corduroys.

“Take your head in,” said the latter, almost affectionately, “or
you’ll be catching cold, and you’ve a nasty scar on your neck that I
could see as you leaned forward, and which you oughtn’t to go getting
the cold into.”

“Oh, that!” said the other complacently, sitting down again, but
averting his gaze carefully from the man in the corner, for whom he
seemed to feel a repulsion as marked as was his preference for his
cheerful _vis-à-vis_. “That! That’s actually the scar of the blow
that killed me. A fearful gash! He was a powerful man that dealt it.
He got me, of course, from behind. I never even saw him. I was drafted
off here at once, his hand had been so sure.” He felt nervously in his
pockets. “I have a foulard somewhere, but I am apt to mislay it.”

“You should do like me, have a good strong handkercher and knot it
round your neck firm. I’ve got a mark of sorts on my neck too, but it
isn’t an open wound--never was,” the bluff man sniggered. “It is sheer
vanity with me, but I don’t care to have it seen. It goes well all
round, mine does--done by a rope, eh!”

He paused and nodded slyly. “For killing a toff. Nice old gentleman he
seemed, too, but I hadn’t much time to look at him. Had to get to
work----”

He was rudely interrupted by a screech from the baby farmer.

“Lord!” she cried, “do I see another conveyance coming on this lonely
road? I do ’ope so. I’m one for seeing plenty of people. I always like
a crowd, and I must tell you, this sort of humdrum jogging along was
beginning to get on my nerves.”

They all jerked themselves round, and peered through the glass panes
behind them. The taciturn man alone reserved his attention.

Sure enough, a dark object, plainly outlined in the strong moonlight
which now lit up the heavens, where heavy masses of cloud had until
now obscured its effulgence, was plainly visible. It blotted the
ribbon of white that lay in front of them.… Nearer and nearer it came.
All heads were at the windows of the coach.… Now it was seen to be a
high-hung dog-cart, of the most modern pattern, drawn by a smart
little mettled pony, and containing two slight young girls.… The one
that drove held the ribbons in hands that were covered with white
dog-skin gloves, and which looked immense in the pallid moonshine.

“What an excitement!” said the stout woman. “We shall pass them. Some
member of one of the country families about here, I suppose.”

“I hope--for all things considering, I’m not a blood-thirsty man,” the
man in corduroys muttered anxiously under his breath, “that we’re not
a-going to give them a shock! Bound to, when we meet them plumb like
this! ’Orses can’t abide the sight of us, mostly, no more than they
could those nasty motors when they first came in. And we’re worse than
motors--they seem to smell us out at once for what we are!”

“If you do really think that pony is likely to swerve,” said the man
in the grey suit, anxiously, “would it be of any use our asking old
Diggory to drive more slowly and humour them?”

“Couldn’t go no slower than we are!” replied the man in corduroys.
“Besides, it’s not the pace that kills! I’ll bet you that pony’s all
of a sweat already!”

The dog-cart approached. The faces of the two young women were
discernible. They were white--blanched with fear, or it may have been
the effect of the strong moonlight. There was no doubt that they were
disturbed, and that the girl who was driving fully realized the
necessity of controlling the horse, whose nostrils were quivering, and
on whose sides foam was already appearing in white swathes.…

“It won’t pass us!” said the man in the corner, speaking suddenly. He
rubbed his hands slowly one over the other. “There will be blood!”

“For goodness’ sake stop gloating like that!” said the stout woman.
“It turns my stomach to hear you. Wherever can you have come from, I
wonder? ’Tisn’t manners.… I say, can’t we hail them?” she inquired of
the man in grey. “All give them one big shout?”

“They wouldn’t be able to hear us,” he replied, shaking his head
sadly. “You must not forget that we are ghosts. We are not really
here.”

“Ay, and that’s what the beasts know!” cried the man in corduroys. He
jumped about. “That ’oss won’t be able to stand it. The kid’ll not be
able to hold him in.…”

“They’re on us!” screamed the smart woman. “Oh, my God! Do we have to
sit still and see it?” She covered her eyes with her hand.

“Yes, Missus, I reckon you have, and what’s more, run away after like
any shoffer that’s killed his man and left him lying in the roadside.
Old Diggory’s got his orders.”

The snorting of the pony was now audible. The coachful of ghosts
distinctly saw the lather of foam dropping from its jaws. They were
able, some of them, to realize the agonized tension of one girl’s
hands, pulling for all she was worth, and the scared sideways twist of
her forcedly inactive companion. Alone the face of the yellow
carriage-lamp glared, immovable.…

Then it flew down, and was extinguished. There was a crash, a
convulsion--and the great road to the north lay clear again.

The Coach of Death rolled on remorselessly past a black heap that
filled the ditch on one side. It lay quite still, after that almost
human leap and heave.…

The smart woman fainted, or appeared to do so. The baby farmer sat
silent.

“It’s iniquitous!” exclaimed the man in grey, turning round from the
window--his eyes wet, “to leave them behind like that without a word
of inquiry, when it’s our conveyance has done all the mischief!”

He groaned and fidgeted.…

The man in corduroys tried to soothe him. “We ain’t to blame, Sir,
don’t you think it!” he repeated. “As you said before to the lady, we
aren’t really here!”

“That is little consolation to a man of honour,” the old man said
sadly. “Still, as you say, we are but tools----”

He devoted himself to the smart woman, who revived a little under his
civil ministrations.

“After all,” she said, “aren’t we somehow or other all in the same
boat? I shouldn’t be surprised if those two nice girls didn’t join us
at the next stage. If they do, we’ll make them tell us how they felt,
when they first saw the coachful of ghosts coming down on them.
They’re certainly dead, for they were both pitched into the ditch with
the cart and horse on top of them. Did anybody see what became of the
horse? No.… Well, we must settle down to dulness again, I am afraid,
or, suppose, to while away the time we all started to tell each other
the story of how we came to be here? A lively tale might cheer us all
up, after the accident.”

“Agreed, Madam, heartily for my part,” said the man in grey, “though
my own story is very humdrum, and not in the least amusing. You want,
of course, an account of the particular accident that sent me here.
Very well! But, ladies first! Will not you begin, Madam?”

She tossed her head, with an affected air.

“My story, perhaps,” she insinuated with modesty, “might not be very
new to you. It was in all the papers so recently.”

“That will not affect me,” he answered, “for if, as I presume, it was
a murder case, I never read them.”

“I read yours then, Missus, I expect,” said the man in corduroys. “I
generally get the wife to read them out to me--anything spicy.”

“And yet the people that did it are not hanged yet, if, indeed, they
ever are, poor souls! I am quite anxious,” said the smart woman, “to
see how it goes. If the pair are really sent here, I suppose I shall
be running up against them some night or other, on one of these
transference parties. It will be very interesting. But”--she leaned
across to the baby farmer--“could we not persuade you to give us some
of your--nursery experiences, Madam?”

“There’s not much story about the drowning of a litter of squalling
puppies or whining kittens,” said that lady shortly, “we want
something livelier--more personal, if I may say so. From a remark that
gentleman in the corner let drop a while ago, I fancy his
reminiscences would be quite worth hearing, as good as a shilling
shocker.”

“My story,” replied the individual thus pointedly addressed, “is
impossible, frankly impossible.”

“Indecent, do you mean?” The smart woman’s eyes shone. “Oh, let us
have it. You can veil it, can’t you?”

“Have you ever heard of mental degenerates?” he asked her
compassionately. “I was one. I was called mad--a simple way of
expressing it. I was a chemist. I dissected neatly enough, too, like a
regular butcher. They did quite right to exterminate me.”

His head dropped. He seemed disinclined to say more. Still the smart
woman persisted.

“But the details----?”

“Are purely medical, Ma’am. Not without a physiological interest, I
may say. Interesting to men of science, pathologically. The”--he named
a daily paper much in vogue at that time, “made a good deal of the
strong sense of artistry--of contrast--the morbid warp inherent in the
executant----”

His head sank again on his chest.

“I do believe,” said the baby farmer, nudging the smart woman, “that
we shall find he’s the man who killed his sweetheart and then
carefully tied her poor inside all into true lover’s knots with
sky-blue ribbon. Artist, indeed! They’re quite common colours--blue
and red----”

“Disgusting!” The delicate lady from Monte Carlo shuddered, and
turning coldly away, joined in the petition proffered by the other
ghosts to the breezy man in corduroys, to relate his experiences.

“Oh, I’ll tell you how I came to join you and welcome!” he said,
rolling his huge neck about in its setting of red cotton. “Well, to
begin with, I was drunk. Equally, of course, I was hard up. My
missus--she’s married again, by the way, blast her!--was always
nagging me to do something for her and the kids. I did. Nation’s
taking care of them now, along of what I did. Work, she meant, but
that was only by the way. I did choose to take on a job, though, on a
rich man’s estate, building some kind of Folly, lots of glass and
that, working away day and night by naphtha flares, you know. He was
one of those men, you know the sort, that has more money than a man
can properly spend, and feels quite sick about it, and says so, in
interviews and so on, in the papers a working man reads. That’s the
mischief. He was always giving away chunks of money to charities and
libraries and that sort of useless lumber, but none of it ever seemed
to come the way of those that were in real need of it. They said the
money had got on his nerves, and would not let him sleep o’ nights,
and that he was afraid by day and went about with a loaded stick and I
don’t know what all. And he was looked after by detectives, at one
time, so the papers said--again the papers, putting things in people’s
heads, as it’s their way. So one blessed evening I was very low--funds
and all, and my missus and the kids hollering and complaining as they
always do when luck’s bad. Lord bless them, they never thought as they
were ’citing their man to murder. Women never do think. And going out
with their snivelling in my ears, I passed the station where he landed
every evening after his day in town, and I happened to see him come
out of the train and send away his motor that was a-waiting for him
all regular, and start out to walk ’ome alone by a short cut across a
little plantation there was, very thick and dark, just the place for a
murder. Well--I told you I was half drunk--I raced home and got
something to do it with--a meat chopper--to be particular----”

The old man opposite put his hand nervously to the back of his neck.

“Ay, Mister, it takes you just there, does it? You look a regular
bundle of nerves, you do. Well, as I was saying, I went round by a
short cut that I happened to know of, and got in front of him and hid
in the hedge. Ten mortal minutes I waited for my man to come by. Lord,
how my hand did tremble! I’d have knocked off for two pence. I was as
nervous as a cat, but all the same, it didn’t prevent me from striking
out for wife and children with a will when my chance came. I caught
him behind with my chopper, and he fell like a log. Never lifted a
hand to defend himself--hadn’t got any grit. Ladies, I don’t suppose I
hurt him much, for he never even cried out when I struck or groaned
when it was done. Then I looked him over, turned out his pockets and
collared his watch and season ticket and seals and money.
Money--hah!--I had been fairly done over that. Would you believe it of
a rich fellow like him, he hadn’t got more than the change of a
sovereign on him.”

“Shame!” ejaculated the taciturn man in the corner.

“I admit it was hard on you,” the man in grey observed kindly. “Very
hard, for I believe the retribution came all too quickly. You
foolishly left your chopper about to identify you, and were
apprehended at once by our excellent rural police. Yet the law is so
dilatory that you lay in gaol a whole year before you were free to
join your victim here?”

“Right you are, mate. Yes, I swung for it, sure enough. Short and
sweet it was once I stood on the drop, but it still makes my poor old
throat ache to think of it.”

He wriggled and twisted his neck in its ruddy cincture.…

“Now, governor, I’m done, and if you’ve no objection we’d all like to
hear how you came by that ugly gash of yours? It wasn’t no rope did
that. Common or garden murder, I’ll be bound.”

“Certainly, my man, it was a murder--a murder most _apropos_. The
circumstances were peculiar. I have often longed to get the ear of the
jury who tried a man for relieving me of my light purse and
intolerably heavy life, and tell them--the whole hard-working,
conscientious twelve of them, trying their best to bring in an honest
verdict and avenge my wrongs--my own proper feelings, surely no
negligible factor in the case! They could not guess, these ignorant
living men, whose eyes had not yet been opened by death to a due sense
of the proportions of things--that I bore the poor creature no malice,
but instead was actually grateful for his skilful surgery that had
severed the life-cord that bored me, so neatly and completely.”

“It isn’t every one would take it like that!” remarked the smart
woman. “Yet that is, more or less, how I feel about these things
myself. Only in my case it is impossible to speak of skilful surgery!
I was disgracefully cut up. I couldn’t possibly have worn a low dress
again!”

“Have you ever heard?” said the man in grey thoughtfully, “of the
Greek story of the Gold of Rhampsinitos, and the inviolable cellar he
built to store it in? According to the modern system, my gold was
hoarded in my brain, where fat assets and sordid securities bred and
bred all day long. The laws that govern wealth are hard. You must give
it, devise it, you must not allow it to be taken. But for my part I
would have welcomed the two sons of the master builder who broke into
the Greek King’s Treasure House. In the strong-room of my brain it
lodged. With one careless calculation, one stroke of a pen, I could
make money breed money there to madden me. I was lonely, too. I had no
wife to divide my responsibilities. She might even have enjoyed them.
But I dared approach no woman in the way of love--I did not choose to
be loved for my cheque-signing powers. I was not loved at all. I was
hated. Unrighteous things were done in my name, by the greedy
husbandmen of my load of money. Then I was told that I went in danger
of my life, and I condescended to take care of that--for a time--only
for a time!

“One dark winter evening--I forget what had happened during the day,
what fresh instance of turpitude or greed had come before me--I was so
revolted that I kicked away all the puling safeguards by which my
agents guarded their best asset of all, and gave the rein to my
instinct. I disregarded precautions of every sort--with the exception
of my faithful loaded stick, and the carrying of that had come to be a
mere matter of habit with me--and I walked home from the station alone
and unattended, up to my big house and good dinner which I hoped--nay,
I almost knew--that I should not be alive to eat. And indeed, as luck
would have it, on that night of all nights the trap was set for me.
The appointed death-dealer was waiting--he took me on at once. I got
my desire--kind, speedy, merciful, violent death. I never even saw the
face of my deliverer.”

“By George!” softly swore the man in corduroys. “This beats all. Are
you sure you aren’t kidding us?”

“No indeed, that is exactly how I felt about it, and if I had known of
knowledge, as I knew of instinct, what was going to happen, I would
have thought to realize some of my wealth before setting out to walk
through that wood, and made it more worth the honest fellow’s while.
But as you are aware, a millionaire does not carry portable gold about
with him, and my cheque-book which I had on me would, of course, be of
no use to him. Alas, all the poor devil got for his pains was exactly
nineteen shillings and eleven pence. I had changed a sovereign at the
book-stall to buy a paper, and out of habit, had waited for the
change.”

The man in corduroys was by this time in a considerable state of
excitement. He had rent the red handkerchief fiercely from his neck,
and now made as if to tear it across his knee.…

“Why, governor!” he exclaimed passionately, “do you mean to say it was
through you that I got this here”--he put both hands behind his head
and interlocked them, “in return for giving you that there cut at the
back of your neck? Well, how things do come about, to be sure!”

“Gently, gently! my man,” the elder soothed him. “Don’t be so
melodramatic about a very ordinary coincidence. See, the ladies are
quite upset. It doesn’t do to allow oneself to get excited here--it’s
not in the rules. If I had made the little discovery you have done, I
don’t think--no, I really don’t think I would have made it public.
This undue exhibition of emotion of yours strikes me as belonging to
the vulgar world we have all left. But since you have allowed it to
come out, and every one is now aware of the peculiar relation in which
we stand to each other, you must let me tender you my best thanks, as
to a most skilful and firm operator, and believe me to be truly
grateful to you for your services in the past.”

“Quite the old school!” said the smart woman.

“I must say, Sir,--I consider you the real gentleman,” said the baby
farmer.

“I am a gentleman.”

“And a fairly accommodating one!” said the rough man, wiping his brow
where, however, no sweat was. “It isn’t every man as would give thanks
for being scragged!”

“Every man isn’t a millionaire,” said his victim calmly.

The smart woman, leaning forward, tapped the old gentleman amiably
with her jewelled pince-nez.

“But we belong to the same world, I perceive,” she said, “and I am
quite able to understand your refined feeling. It is as I said in my
own case. Indeed if those two good people, who shall be nameless, had
only dealt with me a little more gently, I don’t know that I should
not forgive them absolutely. I shall at any rate be perfectly civil
when I do meet them--only perhaps a little distant. But that Monte
Carlo existence I was leading when they interrupted it, was really
becoming intolerable! No one who hasn’t done it, thoroughly can
realize what it is. Glare, noise, glitter, fever--that heartless,
blue, laughing sea they talk of in the railway advertisements----”

The baby farmer, left out in this elegant discussion, obviously took
no pleasure in it, but staring straight before her, muttered sulkily--

“Cote d’Azur and Pentonville! There’s some little difference, isn’t
there, between one life and the other? Yet I enjoyed my life, I did,
and as for gratitude, I can’t say as I see all those blessed infants
a-coming up to me, and slobbering me for what I did for ’em. I may
meet them, but they’ll not notice me. It isn’t in human nature. Their
mothers’ thanks was all I got, and they thanked me beforehand in hard
cash for what I was a-going to do. Lord, what’s a ricketty baby more
or less? I say, we’re slowing up! Going to stop perhaps, and a good
thing too!”

“Yes,” said the man in the grey frock coat, still enouncing his curt
sentences to the unheeding listeners, “I am able to cordially thank
the man who rid me with one clean scientific blow of my wretched life
and all its tedious accessories. A skilled workman is worthy of his
hire.”

“Mercy!” muttered the baby farmer. “Is he never going to stop? If it
was for nothing else, he ought to have got scragged for being a bore!”

But being fully wound up, though in the excitement of arriving at the
depôt no one was attending, the man in grey continued, “Suicide I had
thought of, but abhorred, though on my soul I had nearly come to that,
and then it was merely a question of courage--you spoke truly, Sir.
Mine was a thin, pusillanimous nature, as you said. You came by, a
kind Samaritan, and sacrificed your own good life freely to rid me of
my wretched one. I think I told you that when you were being tried, I
followed urgently all the details of the trial, and made interest with
the authorities here to allow me to appear to the judge in his sleep,
say, and instil into his mind some inkling of the true state of my
feelings towards you. I do not know, however, if you would have
thanked me, for life may have been no sweeter to you than it was to
me--you spoke of an uncongenial helpmate, I think? Still one never
knows. I might have been the means of procuring you some good years
yet, in the full exercise of your undeniable vigour and remarkable
decision of character. But it was apparently not to be. You followed
me here, after a long interval of waiting, and now we have met, face
to face. The introduction on that dark night was worth nothing. I like
your face. We shall probably never meet again--their ways are dark and
devious here, so I am the more glad of this opportunity of opening my
mind to you on a delicate subject, perhaps, but one that has always
been very near my heart. By the way”--he lifted his stick with its
shining ivory crown into view. “Did you notice this? You read the
papers, you said, and they told you it was heavily weighted and that I
carried it always as a precaution. Well, on that eventful night for
both of us--perhaps you were too hurried to notice?--but I never used
it. Accept it now, will you not, as a memento?… I think, from sundry
truly unearthly bumpings, that we seem to have come at last to our
journey’s end.… I am right, the coachman has got down from his perch
and taken his head under his arm.… We part. Mesdames, I salute you.
Again, Sir----” He addressed himself more particularly to the
shamefaced man in corduroys--“Farewell. Very pleased to have met you!”

One by one, the passengers faded away into the distance. The polite
old man paused in the semblance of an inn yard where the coach had
drawn up. A pale proud woman’s face, shining up by the step, had
touched him. She was an intending passenger, and she was alone. She
wore white dog-skin gloves, but no hat. Unusual, he fancied, in a
woman of her class. On looking closer, he saw that she had a hat, but
that it hung disregarded over her shoulder by an elastic, and was much
battered and destroyed. He decided to speak to her.

“You are the lady we killed, I think?” he asked gently.

She acknowledged with a bow that it was so.

“We could none of us do anything,” he apologized, “or I hope you will
believe----”

“Certainly, Sir, it was no fault of yours, or indeed of the company’s,
I am sure. The accident was inevitable!” so she assured him, smiling
faintly. He looked at her kindly. There was blood on the hair, he was
able to convince himself.… “But Rory--our pony--never can pass things,
at the best of times, and the look of your conveyance was certainly
rather unusual. And at that time of night we rarely meet anything at
all on the Great North Road. We choose that time on purpose, my sister
and I--we had been staying away for a week with friends, and we were
going home. When we saw you coming, Lucy said, half in jest--she is
older than I--‘Suppose that thing in front were the Coach of Death the
foolish country people talk about? They say it travels this way once a
year, with its cargo of souls, on St. John’s Eve.’ I bade her not be
superstitious, but I confess I thought the vehicle looked odd myself,
and I did wonder how Rory would stand it. When it came nearer I saw
distinctly that the coachman was headless, and I laughingly told my
sister so. She bade me not disturb her, for death coach or live coach,
she meant to do her best to get Rory past it. She failed----”

The man in grey looked nervously around. He was alone with the young
lady in the dull inn yard. The headless coachman was preparing to
ascend to the box seat again.…

“Where is your sister now?” he inquired.

“She lies at the bottom of the ditch. Rory has galloped home. She fell
on her head, but she is alive still. When they find her in the
morning, she will be dead, I know that. For now I know all things. I
am at peace… you need have no care for me.…”

“Let me at least put you into the coach,” he begged. “And you will
prefer the corner seat?”…

She took it; he went on--

“It looks, however, as if you were going to have all the accommodation
to yourself, for this stage at all events.”

He raised his hat; she bowed.

“I am grieved that I cannot have the pleasure--that I cannot offer to
accompany you, but I have my marching orders.…”

He raised his hat again.… The coach moved on out of the yard. Soon it
was lost in the mists.… The summer dawn was just breaking.
