TITLE: The Disappearance of Mr. Jeremiah Redworth
AUTHOR: Charlotte Riddell (Mrs. J. H. Riddell)
FIRST PUBLICATION YEAR: 1878
FORM: Christmas novella / supernatural mystery
SOURCE EDITION/CONTAINER: Routledge's Christmas Annual (1878)
SOURCE URL: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/a0/The_Disappearance_of_Mr._Jeremiah_Redworth.pdf
SOURCE PDF PAGES EXTRACTED: 24-125
TEXT STATUS: Lightly cleaned machine OCR; not a corrected diplomatic transcription.
EDITORIAL NOTE: Check quotations, punctuation, proper names, and suspected OCR errors against the scan before scholarly quotation.

--- BEGIN OCR TEXT ---

CHAPTER I.

MR. REDWORTH STARTS FOR CADLEBURY .

On a fine July morning, in a certain year of grace, Mr.
Jeremiah Redworth left his house, situate in Dorking
Street, Ludham, with the intention of proceeding to
Cadlebury, distant, as the crow flies, some eight miles.
As no road, however, in that part of Surrey, does
follow the crow's flight, Cadlebury, to all practical intents and purposes, is a thirteen or fourteen miles' journey from Ludham.
A journey across country, too, impossible by rail, save by
making a considerable detour, and by calculating with much nicety
the arrival and departure of corresponding trains.
For a man of his years, the distance might have seemed excessive
to those who did not know that Mr. Redworth boasted he could do
his twenty miles a day with the youngest fellow in the parish.
Over his head time had passed lightly ; life for him had held
wonderfully little trouble. Never had it been necessary for him
to work too hard, or think very much, or sorrow over deeply ;
nature, when she created him, omitted from his constitution keen
susceptibilities, loving sympathies, quick impulses ; and the circumstances ofhis career, so far from supplying natural deficiencies, tended
to deepen and harden every original trait.
Misfortune had spared and sickness overlooked him ; never had
it been necessary or indeed possible for him to mix freely among
all sorts and conditions of men. From the small world of a government office he retired to the smaller world of a sluggish country
town, where he occupied the late leisure of his existence by turning

his money over to good account by making small investments, by
interesting himself in local matters, and laying out plans for his
own future and for the future of those who should come after
him.
When a human being is so constituted that, practically, he
scarcely understands the meaning of suffering, sorrowing, or repenting, the years as a matter of course deal gently with him, and at
seventy, Mr. Redworth, who had scarcely known what it was to have
a day's real sickness since his teens, did not look so old, and in
many respects really was not so old, as men little more than twothirds his age.
In a district where rheumatism racked the bones of quite young
people, Mr. Redworth never experienced ache nor pain. Bronchitis
had no terrors for him, and the members of his household could not
remember that he had ever suffered from a cold in his head.
He was rarely out of bed after eleven p.m., or in bed after halfpast seven a.m. Nothing could induce him to wear a top-coat, or
a wrapper round his throat.
" Thick boots and plenty of exercise ! " was his motto.
" If you wear thick boots and take plenty of exercise," he
remarked, addressing society generally, " you need never be ill, and
you may live almost as long as you like."
Ludham accepted this statement, as it accepted many other
dogmatic observations uttered by the same gentleman, without contradiction, and it is not on record that anybody ever asked him
what the poor wretches were to do who could not wear thick boots
or take plenty of exercise.
Mr. Redworth was in the enviable position of not only being able
to make his own laws, but follow them.
There were few theories he chose to advance, that if it pleased
him he might not carry into practice. In his own way he was as
absolute an autocrat as the Czar of all the Russias, and if he ruled
his subjects gently and with a fair amount of generosity, such
admirable results were certainly owing less to the system than to
the man.
Standing on the pipe-clayed steps leading to his own hall door,
for instance, the morning when he left his house in Dorking Street
for the last time, neither of the ladies who accompanied him to the
threshold with the kindly desire of " seeing him off," ventured to
ask when he might be expected home.
Long previously some unspoken law had been laid down that
the head of the establishment was not to be questioned, and consequently the members composing his household, like good children,
"waited to be told."
Concerning his goings and comings it is therefore to Mr. Redworth's credit that he made no secrets ; and many persons will consider it to his praise that regarding his affairs he was silent as the
grave.
Thus, although Miss Redworth, his daughter, and Miss Gower,

second cousin of his " admirable and lamented wife," had been told
overnight that, " if fine, he intended walking to Cadlebury the next
day," they were utterly ignorant what he meant to do when he
got there ; and when standing in the morning sunshine, his hat well
brushed, his coat free from speck or stain, his linen spotless, his
boots brightly polished, and his umbrella tightly furled, Mr. Redworth said to his daughter-
"You need not expect to see me back much before nine, Amelia,"
Amelia had no more knowledge than the dead lying in Ludham
Churchyard how her surviving parent meant to improve the fleeting hours of that summer's day.
Afterwards Miss Gower remembered that, contrary to his usual
habit, Mr. Redworth lingered for a minute on the step before taking
hisdeparture.
At the time it did not strike her as anything extraordinary, that
he should have stood smoothing the wrinkles out of his gloves, and
looking up at the sky ere crossing the street, and walking in his
gentlemanly manner out of the town, but subsequently she recollected he had done so.
" I think I shall go by the canal," he remarked, as he moved
away irresolutely, and then paused once again.
"You will find it much cooler than the road across the heath,"
observed Miss Gower.
" Yes, much cooler," he agreed ; " and pleasanter," he added,
swinging his umbrella.
Having made that further observation, he looked down on the
pavement, took another irresolute step, then, quite suddenly, saying
to daughter and niece-
" Good-bye, for the present, my dears," Mr. Redworth walked
out of their sight for ever.

CHAPTER II.

AN EXCUSABLE WEAKNESS .

MR. REDWORTH had married before he was thirty, and there
were now two of his sons settled in London--men verging towards
middle age, men with grave faces and staid manners, possessed of
wives and families .
The ex-government clerk had done well for them, given them
good educations, placed them early in suitable situations, managed
to get them subsequently into good business houses, and when the
chance of desirable partnerships fell in their way, assisted them
wisely and economically to the fulfilment of their wishes. When
in due time the young men beheld young women sufficiently fair,
and possessed of a little money in the present, and the chance of
more in the future, Mr. Redworth once again came to the front,

enabled them to buy a couple of houses in a convenient neighbourhood, helped them considerably in the matter of furniture,
and, in a word, started them almost unweighted in the race of
matrimony.
Both Trenhill and Gower were very good sons of a very good
father ; neither, it may be safely said, had given an hour's real
anxiety in their younger days, and now, when they were no longer
young, but men with assured positions in the mercantile world,
men safely prosperous, and well able to provide for the families
growing up about them, Mr. Redworth might have been excused
had he referred to them in a tone of conscious pride, and informed
acquaintances, with a certain triumph, that Trenhill Redworth,
partner in the house of Basing, Hull, and Redworth, bacon factors,
Tooley Street, and Gower Redworth, junior in the firm of Morris
and Redworth, bone crushers, Bermondsey, were his two eldest
born.
But Mr. Redworth did nothing of the sort. Perhaps it would
be going too far to say that in his later life Mr. Redworth felt
ashamed of the bacon warehouse and the bone-crushing factory, but
undoubtedly he never alluded to either with enthusiasm.
While he was struggling, while he felt, with all the economy he
could practise, that there may be some difficulty in meeting rent
and taxes, paying tradesmen's bills, providing for the proper education of a growing family, and making provision for those left
behind in case of his premature death, Mr. Redworth, being unable
to indulge the solitary weakness his nature knew, had, with laudable
common sense, invested his sons, so to speak, in the stock most
likely to return a sound and safe dividend.
Since they left school they had not really cost him a penny.
While in situations they had received sufficient, if moderate
salaries, and for all moneys afterwards advanced they paid him
interest at the rate of five per cent.
He had been generous enough to give them a hundred pounds
a-piece the day they were married, and the furniture he personally
presented to the respective wives might perhaps have amounted to
three hundred more ; but these things had been of his own free
will ; and as his sons were always sending him parcels and hampers
directed to Ludham station, South Western Railway, carriage
paid, it may be assumed that even for that five hundred pounds he
had an ample return.
And yet no one ever heard Mr. Redworth speak with effusion
of those good citizens, Trenhill and Gower, any more than any man
living had ever known him talk with softened voice and smiling
face, of-
" My daughter Amelia."
Mr. Redworth, like each among us, had his weakness, and in his
case it took the form of birth .
It was a natural foible, no doubt, in a man who,having risen
from nothing, had for years and years of his life been thrown in

contact with people who owed everything to connection-who
visited at houses, the doors of which were closed to him-who
claimed relationship with Lord This and the Duke of That, who
had the ways and the manners and the habits of the Upper Ten, and
who looked down on trade and tradespeople with an ignorant contempt which to any one capable of seeing and appreciating the
humour of the position, would have been enjoyable in the extreme.
Mr. Redworth, unhappily, could not enjoy the joke, and suffered
inconsequence.
The nephew of a woollen-draper in a country town, foisted into
a Government office by the influence of a member of Parliament,

Society " to him meant something on the other side of a perpetually-closed door-Paradise-Heaven-if the readers have no
objection to strong language.
This story has to deal so little with what the man was, that it is
unnecessary to devote space which might be otherwise employed in
telling how young Jeremiah modelled his manners upon those of
young Tremaine, tied his cravats after the fashion of Gervais,
modulated his voice like Howard, and endeavoured to walk like the
Honourable Major Helleric, chief, in Redworth's calf-days, of his
department.
Coming from the most humble stock, he worshipped rank, for
which reason he ignored the city, and said as little as he could avoid
about the sons who were earning their living honestly and hardly
in Tooley Street and Bermondsey.
He had married his wife for the sake of her " family." Happily
for him he never knew the ins and outs of that deceptive pedigree.
The real state of the case was this : Once upon a time, a hardworking man of the name of Gower rented a farm within walking
distance of a garrison and cathedral town in the far west of
England.
Hehad many fair daughters, and amongst them one fairer than
all, called Amelia, who, attracting the notice of a certain Major
Cartress, left her home, and was secretly married to the officer in
question. Eventually a scandal arose about the business.
It was said, and with justice, that Miss Gower's husband had
been guilty of bigamy-that she was not his first wife, and that
if she liked to proceed to extremities, she could send him to
prison.
All this occurred at a distance from Miss Gower's parenta
home, and close to the parental home of Major Cartress's first wife.
To the rescue came Mrs. Cartress's father, a gentleman accustomed to look upon everything froma pound-shilling-and-pence view.
"Now look here," he said to Mrs. Cartress number two, " we
know the fellow is a scoundrel, and that he richly deserves prosecuting; but how will prosecuting him serve you ? If he were snug
in jail to-morrow you could not be more free to marry somebody
else than you are now. As regards supporting you, even if he had
any money-which he has not-you could not compel him1to
make

IO
you any allowance. Now I'll tell you what I am willing to do
if you choose to keep yourself quiet. Leave the management of the
affair to me, and I will write you a cheque for a hundred pounds,
and pay you twenty-five pounds a year so long as you remain
unmarried, You need not decide to-day. Perhaps you would like
to consult your friends. At all events, take no step you cannot
recall till after you have thought the matter over."
Miss Gower did think the matter over, and discovered that
what Mr. Jenkins said was perfectly true. The business was a bad
one, but an exposure could not mend it. To her it had been a
great glory to call herself the lady of a Major, but life with the
Major was not, after the honeymoon, destitute of troubles.
A very shrewd and a very sensible woman, she decided to
accept Mr. Jenkins's offer if he would agree to change its terms.
" I think," she said, " I could make a boarding-house pay in
London. Enable me to purchase or start one, and I will never ask
you for another shilling."
"Very well," agreed Mr. Jenkins, after a minute's hesitation,
and the same day she left Manchester for London.
Arrived there, she dressed in widow's weeds, and commenced her
metropolitan career in the character of a lady whose husband
was dead.
Ere long, in point of fact, Major Cartress did actually die, and
none of her new friends ever suspected there had been anything
awkward about the lady's marriage.
She experienced no difficulty in stating where the ceremony took
place, and the name of the officiating clergyman. It was impossible
for her dearest crony to hint at the existence of any mystery about
her. Had it been necessary to show her " marriage lines," she could
have taken them at once out of her desk, and with them the
certificate of baptism of Amelia Laura, daughter of Major Frederick
Cartress and Amelia his wife.
As years went on, she talked more and more of the " reduced
circumstances " in which she had been left, and of the struggles she
had been obliged to make in order to maintain herself and child.
About the same time she began to find it pay to allude frequently to " the Gowers," and to make constant mention of
"Trenhill, my father's property."
Poor old Mr. Gower had gone to a world where anxieties about
rent-days, and the failure of crops, harassed him no more, and there
was, consequently, not the slightest fear of that stalwart farmer
bringing his horrid fustian between the wind and her nobility.
Mrs. Cartress had been a beautiful girl, and as she developed
into a very handsome woman, the friends of her later life, who heard
references to " the Gowers," and were treated to many touching
reminiscences of " Trenhill," were wont to declare that anyone
could see the lady had come of distinguished people. " Her features
are quite aristocratic," they never failed to add, " and her manners
noble."

The Disappearance of Mr. Jeremiah Redworth. II

Eventually, there can be no doubt Mrs. Cartress herself came to
believe she was in some way related to the members of a certain
titled house.
Prints representing several of them graced her walls, and the
widow often said, with a sigh, " It is heart-breaking to think how
far the branches of good families sometimes droop."
" The anomaly of a Gower keeping a boarding-house," she often
remarked, with what her admirers called " a queenly gesture."
" It is always those the best born who struggle most bravely
against adversity," was another of her utterances. Indeed, in the
course of years, she acquired a sufficient number of these sayings to
enable her effectually to garnish her conversation with them.
As for the daughter, growing to womanhood, if the blood of all
the rightful Gowers had flowed in her veins, she could not have
been prouder of her pedigree. Trenhill, to her imagination, was a
ducal residence, and her grandfather, she firmly believed, had been
a fine old English gentleman.
" She takes after my poor husband in looks," Mrs. Cartress frequently observed. " She doesn't in the least resemble the Gowers."
Knowing a young fellow who boarded in the house of this
reduced gentlewoman, Mr. Redworth was brought into contact with
his future wife, and it is satisfactory to be able to state that, till
the hour of his death, he was never diş-illusioned on the subject of
Miss Cartress's ancestry.
If Miss Cartress had stepped across the threshold of Dunrobin
Castle to become his bride, Mr. Redworth could not have felt more
certain that she was a relative of the owner.
It was a harmless fancy, and one which tended greatly to his
happiness, and as Mrs. Redworth kept herself a little aloof from
general society, every one who was thrown in contact with the
lady, firmly believed Mr. Redworth's statement that she had come of
very great people indeed.
After his two eldest sons were placed in those houses in which
they eventually became partners, a great change took place in Mr.
Redworth's circumstances .
The woollen-draper, then an old man, died intestate, and to the
thousands he had put by, and to the goodwill of his business, Mr.
Redworth, in default of any nearer relation, succeeded.
It is unnecessary perhaps to say that with all convenient speed
the goodwill of the business was disposed of, and Mr. Redworth,
banking the amount of the purchase money as well as the thousands
already referred to, began to look about him for suitable investments.
At this time his family consisted of only four children ; one
had died in infancy, and two were carried off by fever in their
teens.
Thus there was a gap of ten years intervening between Miss
Redworth and her youngest brother John Morrison Redworth,
whilst a still wider interval stretched between his " old " brothers
and the " boy."

On this lad, this Benjamin, Mr. Redworth expended all the hope
and pride of his nature.
As harassed mothers, to whom infants have come so fast that
before one can walk another requires to be hushed and tended, say
pathetically they have never been able to " enjoy " a baby, so Mr.
Redworth, who had always kept up appearances and done his duty
towards wife and children, and found both often a struggle, knew
when his uncle's money rendered life quite easy to him, he had
never got much pleasure out of any one of his sons tillcurly haired,
blue-eyed John began to go to school and bring home his little
prizes.
Hitherto everything connected with the Redworth family had of
necessity been almost strictly useful, but John, his father determined,
should be ornamental as well .
He inherited all his grandmother's beauty, he was quick, and
bright, and clever, and he had cast back to some remote ancestor,
perhaps to one of the remarkable Gowers, for a temper which seemed
incapable of being ruffled-sunny, cheerful, and unselfish.
No greediness or grasping, no envy or jealousy about that curlypated little lad, no dangerous instincts lurking in the depths
of his dark-blue eyes-a good truthful merry boy full of noble and
generous impulses, a boy of whom any father might have been fond
and proud, a favourite with servants, and teachers, and visitors, and
schoolfellows .
If his brothers were not quite so fond of him as other people, it
was because they felt they too were possessed of admirable qualities
which the world should have been equally swift to recognize.
Naturally also they contrasted the Spartan severity of their
training with the many indulgences granted to thisBenjamin of the
household.
" Our father will rue it all some day," they often said, shaking
their prematurely old heads over their parent's folly; and yet,
despite this jealousy, they sincerely loved the boy with a faithful
brotherly love calculated to stand much wear and tear.
What projects that father built upon that son! All his own
life had to him almost unconsciously lacked was to find fruition in
the future of his youngest born.
John should be not merely a great man, but also a great gentleman. There was no height to which in imagination Mr. Redworth
did not sometimes climb when considering John's possibilities.
Had not the boy been born with the typical spoon in his mouth ?
Which of his other children found wealthy sponsors who gave
costly gifts to the infant for whom they so solemnly renounced the
world and a few other sinful items.
The silver mug, the silver knife, fork and spoon, the coral and
bells were not these things laid up as evidences of how fortune
had smiled upon the lad's birth.
In itself, John Morrison might not, Mr. Redworth considered, be
a desirable name, but when accompanied with many tips, and the

prospect of a fine legacy, it became not merely bearable bat
poetical.
What puzzled Mr. Redworth most was the choice of a profession.
To such a prodigy there were so many open.
To be Lord Chief Justice, for instance, was not a bad kind of
thing. A Bishopric, too, presented an eminently desirable sort of
opening. About the post of Prime Minister there was a certain
instability, which to Mr. Redworth had its drawbacks ; but still if
his son made that goal his ambition, he would not object.
" So much," he was wont to remark, " depends upon the bent of
a young man's mind," which indeed, so far as John Morrison Redworth was concerned, proved terribly true. Everything depended
upon that, and yet while he was still in his teens, every one except,
perhaps, his father knew the lad's mind had no bent at all.
" If hehad only been put to business early! " sighed his brothers,
overlooking the fact that if he had been put to business from his
nurse's arms, he never would have compassed the successes they
achieved ; that no matter what his training, nature must have proved
too strong for art, and rendered him just as unfit to become a
prosperous merchant as to grapple with the difficulties of statesmanship.
But his father considered him perfection, and believed all the
shortcomings of his career were attributable to the scurvy treatment
accorded him by that shocking old hypocrite his godfather.
"Always led us to suppoe John should be his heir, always
treated him like his own son, sir. Every one believed him to be
an old bachelor ; but when he died there was a wife with half- adozen children ready to swallow up the property. Not a sixpence
to John-he was not thought worth even the scrape of a pen."

CHAPTER III .

MISS GOWER .

THE long summer day passed slowly away. Miss Redworth, who,
since her mother's death, had presided over her father's establishment, looked after such household details as required her supervision,
and then joined Miss Gower, who was engaged in the harmless
occupation of crocheting an elaborate antimacassar.
Miss Gower was a relation of the deceased Mrs. Redworth, and
as such very dear indeed to the widower's heart. A certain James
Gower, son of the Trenhill farmer, had at an early age gone to
Canada to seek his fortune, and this Hilda Susannah, so skilful in all
kinds of delicate needlework, was his granddaughter. A correspondence had always been maintained between James and his sister
Mrs. Cartress, and that epistolary acquaintance, kept up after his
death between the younger members of the family, was sufficient,

when Hilda as left wan orphan with only a moderate dot, to render
her being consigned to England and the care of so respectable a
gentleman as Mr. Redworth, as natural as under the circumstances
it happened to be expedient.
Not handsome like her far-off relative Mrs. Cartress, or pretty
like her own mother, or stately and dignified like Mrs. Redworth,
Miss Gower nevertheless was possessed of charms which appealed to
the tastes of most of the Redworth family.
Pallid of complexion, slight of figure, with features small and
fairly well cut, she appeared to Mr. Redworth an eminently genteel
and good-looking young woman.
She never became red with heat or blue with cold ; her hair
was always perfectly smooth and her dress eminently neat. Her
collars, and cuffs, and gloves could not have been smoother or more
free from crease or crumple if she had been a lay figure. Her
jacket was never dusty, her feathers were never out of curl. When
you had seen Miss Gower once you had seen her always. However
fashions might change, and what the latest mode she affected, you
felt she must have been similarly attired for years. There was never
any novelty about her, or, for that matter, any antiquity either ; a
young old woman, with self-possessed manners ; never excited,
never very sorrowful, never very glad, never certainly lively, and
never greatly depressed ; dowered, as poor Mr. Redworth imagined,
with that repose which " marks the line of Vere de Vere ; " in the
eyes of Miss Redworth and her brothers a very superior girl indeed,
but who might, to persons accustomed to wider views of humanity,
have seemed singularly self-contained and inscrutable.
Such as she was, Mr. Redworth destined her for his youngest
son. Some day, it was quite understood-it had always been understood that Miss Gower and John Redworth should, as the exgovernment clerk tersely expressed the proceeding, " Make a match
of it."
" Awife any man might be proud of," remarked Mr. Redworth ;
" fit to ride in her carriage ; and who may ride in her carriage some
day, who knows."
Of course no one could venture to prophesy what might occur
when that vague some day arrived ; but there were not wanting
persons who said positively unless Mr. Redworth left his son very
well off, that young gentleman would have to proceed through life
in a somewhat more modest fashion.
Long before the world-the Redworth world I mean-had
decided that John Morrison Redworth would never achieve greatness-that he was not very clever-that he was inclined to be
extravagant and that he had not a bit of industry in his nature.
In this case the world's verdict was true, and Miss Gower knew
it. And yet Miss Gower loved him. So far as it was in her nature
to love anything, Miss Gower loved her handsome, good-tempered,
debonnair cousin with all her heart .
Some day also she believed he would love her, and meantime there

was no one else ; of that she felt quite certain. He was stillfancy free,
he cared for nobody ; she was sure she had not a rival in the world !
The day wore on. After partaking of a seasonable repast, at
which cold lamb, mint sauce, a cool salad, and some raspberry tarts
occupied the chief places of honour, Miss Redworth and Miss
Gower proceeded in the glowing heat of a July afternoon to pay
visits. Then they had a little walk by the river, and strolled back
across the town meadows to Dorking Street.
" John will be at home before us," remarked Miss Redworth,
stifling a yawn.
"Yes, I heard his train come in some time since," answered
Miss Gower.
Never having discovered whether the bent of his mind inclined
to the Episcopal Palace, or the leadership of the House of Commons,
John Redworth had, pending the development of any decided taste,
permitted himself to accept a " post under Government. "
In a word, he was at five-and-twenty a clerk, as his father had
been before him ; with this difference, that he did as little work as
he could ; that he was spending more than his salary ; and that he
had not the faintest idea of trying to do anything better in life than
to lounge through it.
He was asked, however, to many parties. Young men of good
family called him " Jack," and " Redworth," and, to a certain
extent, made him free of their own rank, whatever value such
freedom might confer.
Very different, indeed, was he from his brothers, the steady and
respectable City merchants ; and if his father chafed sometimes at
his want of application, he exulted in the son, who, so far as appearance and manner went, " might have been heir to the Crown."
At Ludham the inhabitants knew very little indeed of the habits
of courts, or the tastes and ways of princes, and Mr. Redworth's
statement was therefore received without contradiction. Ludham,
however, had got an inkling that Mr. John Redworth was going to
the dogs, but it did not care to tell his father so.
When the two ladies reached home they were informed that Mr.
John had not come back.
" He will be down by the next train," said Miss Redworth ;
" shall we wait tea, dear ? "
" By all means," agreed Miss Gower, and so after she had taken
off her bonnet and laid aside her jacket, and pulled out her gloves
finger by finger, and smoothed her ever-smooth light hair, the
young lady descended to the drawing-room, and resumed the manufacture of that antimacassar which day by day grew in size and
beauty.
The " next train " had been in some time, and still John
Redworth did not come.
" I think we had better have tea, dear," suggested Miss Redworth,
consulting her watch.
" Just as you like," answered Miss Gower.

Miss Redworth did like, and so the ladies went into the diningroom, where there were a great many flies, and partook of tea ,
which was always set out in that dreary apartment.
Mr. Redworth had no patience with people " lolling about " at
meals, and the tea-table was therefore invariably spread with mathematical accuracy, chairs being ranged round the festive board, as
though the family were about to have a regular dinner.
Thus laid it was a somewhat dismal repast for two persons, and
so apparently Miss Gower felt, for she sipped her tea indifferently,
and crumbled a biscuit idly, whilst the flies came and went, and the
noise of rattling conveyances sounded through the open windows as
hough carts and cabs were rushing through the room. Children
at their play screamed and shouted on the side paths, and there did
not seem a breath of fresh air stirring in all the land.
" I wonder where John can be," marvelled Miss Redworth.
" Gone to spend the evening with some friend, I dare say," said
Miss Gower; "but it is strange he did not telegraph."
John Redworth had a way of telegraphing. It saved much
trouble and prevented useless conjecture.
" Shall we go up to the drawing-room ? " asked Miss Redworth,
when the decorous meal was concluded .
" Yes," answered Miss Gower, and after having uttered that
monosyllable she returned to her crochet work.
Almost in silence for some time the two ladies continued their
respective employments .
In that establishment there was never much of the pleasant
chatter which obtains in some families. Decorous, respectable,
well-ordered, well-managed was the little household over which
Miss Redworth presided, but lively-never.
Gaiety is not the distinguishing quality of some homes. Gaiety
certainly was about the last sin which could be laid at the door of
the Redworths.
" Papa will soon be back now," said Miss Redworth at length,
" It is past nine, " said Miss Gower. " I suppose he meant
to return by train. Hark ! There he is."
But Miss Gower was wrong. The latch-key she heard thrust
into the lock belonged not to Mr. Redworth, but to his son, who
was greeted over the banisters by his sister-
" Why, John, is that you ? ”
" Yes, Amy. Late, am I not ? "
" We thought perhaps you had gone off for the evening."
" No. I only went on to Cadlebury."
" To Cadlebury ? Did you see anything of papa ? "
"Nothing."
" How wearily you speak, John," remarked his sister. "Have
you had tea ? ”
" I don't want any tea, thank you."
" Should you like some supper now, or will you wait till papa
returns ? "

" He pulled some gold out of his pocket, and let the sovereigns fall from one hand
into the other, with a pleasant gliding melody."
P. 17.

" Where is the governor ? " asked the young man, coming up
the staircase.
"Where ? Why, he told you this morning he was going to
Cadlebury."
" Did he ? Oh, yes, I remember. Well, is he not back ? "
" No-not yet."
"What on earth can he have found to occupy him all day at
Cadlebury ? "
"I don't know. He said we need not expect him before nine
o'clock ."
" Then he meant to return by the train which brought me. He
can't be here now till half-past ten."
"Perhaps he is walking back," suggested Miss Gower. By this
time they were all in the drawing-room together.
" I should think that would be too much of a good thing, even
for him," said the young man, throwing himself into an easy-chair.
" By Jove ! how hot it is ! "
"Won't you have a glass of wine ? " asked his sister. "You
seem quite knocked up. Why did you go on to Cadlebury ? "
" Oh ! I wanted to see a fellow down there, and I thought I
could have been home long ago. Yes, Amy, I should like a glass
ofwine, please. If you give me the keys I can get it for myself."
But already Miss Gower was at the door, and half-way down
the stairs.
One of the delights of her life was to minister to this young
man's wants. One of the greatest pleasures of her monotonous
existence was to hear him say, " Thank you, Hilda," or, " You are far
too good to me," or, "You really make me feel ashamed of my
laziness. " She brought up the wine and some biscuits, and, pouring
out a glass of sherry, carried it to where he sat.
As she did so she tripped over a footstool, and, to save herself
from falling, laid a hand upon his arm.
" Why, John," she exclaimed, " your sleeve is quite wet."
" Wet still, is it ? " he said carelessly, and yet colouring a little
as he spoke. " I thought it would have been dry long ago."
"What were you doing to get your sleeve wet ? " asked his
sister. If it were a rule of the house that Mr. Redworth's proceedings were beyond question, the same tolerance was not extended
to the actions of any other member of the family.
"I was getting something out of the water," he answered.
" Why, John, how odd you are to-night," exclaimed Miss Redworth. "What was the something you were getting out of the
water ? "
" Ah ! that is my secret," he replied, with an uneasy laugh.
" Can't you let a fellow have some peace, when he comes home
badgered and worried. Look here, do you want any money, either
of you ? For a wonder I have got a lot-behold ! " and he pulled
some gold out of his pocket, and let the sovereigns fall from one
hand into the other, with a pleasant gliding melody.

" My dear John ! " cried out his sister.
" How rich you are, all of a sudden," observed Miss Gower.
"Yes-for a wonder a horse I backed won, and this is the
result. Now, girls, what shall I buy for you ? Don't be modest, Amy.
Speak up, and declare what your feminine soul most longs for."
" That my brother should be wise and give up betting, and
save his money," said his sister, earnestly. " Oh, John ! how I do
wish--"
" Like a dear girl, don't begin preaching to me to-night. I am
tired to death. I have been running about all day. If you don't
mind, I think I will go to bed. I suppose I ought to sit up to
remonstrate with the governor about keeping such late hours-but
I'll let him off for this once."
As the door closed behind the young man, the two women
looked at each other.
" I wonder what is the matter with him," said Miss Redworth.
" I wonder why he went to Cadlebury," said Miss Gower.

CHAPTER IV.

MISSING .

JOHN REDWORTH had never achieved a reputation for early rising,
or regularity of any sort. In a house where punctuality was the
rule, he proved the exception. Housemaids had to tap several
times at his door before he evinced the slightest intention of turning
out of bed, and his sister never expected to see him till she was
pouring out second cups of coffee.
For this reason Miss Redworth looked surprised when, on the
morning succeeding his visit to Cadlebury, her youngest brother
entered the breakfast-room even before the kettle was brought up.
Such an event had not taken place since she assumed possession of
the household keys, and naturally she felt a surprised astonishment
at its occurrence.
" I went to bed last night at such an unearthly time," he explained, somewhat sheepishly, as though not being late for breakfast
was a thing any man might feel ashamed of. " Is not the governor
down yet ? At what hour did he turn up last night ? "
" He never turned up at all," answered his sister. " I wish,
John, you would not call him ' governor ; ' it does sound to me so
disrespectful ."
" My dear girl, there you are quite wrong. ' Governor ' is a
term of the highest respect. And so he didn't come home ? What
little game can he have on hand ? It won't do, Amy. We
must not permit this sort of thing to continue. We shall hear of the
dad getting into all sorts of scrapes. It will be necessary for me to
speak to him seriously."

" I did not go to bed until nearly two o'clock," said Miss Redworth, a little complainingly.
" You look as if you hadn't been to bed at all," answered her
brother, with fraternal frankness. "Eyelids heavy, cheeks pale, and
that sort of thing. Sitting up o' nights does not agree with your
style of beauty, Amy. And the fair Hilda Susannah, did she sit up
also ? "
" Yes, it was natural, considering papa's regular habits, we
should feel a little uneasy."
" No doubt ; when a gentleman of his age takes to evil courses,
matters do look serious."
" John," said his sister-by command of Mr. Redworth the
young man had been called John by his family since he was a baby,
never Jack-" try not to be absurd for a minute-don't laugh at
me. I want to ask you a question. Do you think any accident
can have happened to papa ? ”
" Accident," repeated her brother, " what kind of accident could
have happened to him ? "
" That is what I cannot imagine."
Mr. John Redworth thrust his hands deep in his coat pockets,
walked to the window, and then walked back again.
" If the train had smashed up we should have heard of it," he
said, after a moment's reflection. " Father always goes about the
world labelled like luggage. Card-case, pocket-book with name
and address printed on it, linen marked, a few letters directed to
Jeremiah Redworth, Esq., invariably upon his person. No, Amy, you
need not be uneasy. Ill news, you know, travels fast, and ill news
about the governor would have come home like a shot."
" And yet still, John, I cannot help feeling uneasy. I have a sensation of something being amiss, which I am unable to shake off.
Last night, or rather this morning, when I went upstairs to bed, it
seemed to me as if there was some one lying dead in the house.
Do you know, I felt so nervous, I was almost afraid to go into his
room as I passed, and while I lay awake for I could not sleep-I
could have declared I heard him walking about as he does when he
is dressing, and opening and shutting the drawers. You will think
me very foolish, but I cannot get over my fancy that something has
gone wrong," and, as if to emphasize her statement, Miss Redworth
covered her face, and sobbed aloud.
To do him justice, John Redworth looked sorry and sympathetic.
" Poor Amy," he said, kneeling on one knee beside his sister,
and putting an arm affectionately round her neck, " you ought not
to have sat up so late. What a brute I was to go to bed and leave
you to do work you are so little used to. See how undesirable a virtue
regularity is, " he added, speaking in his usual tone. "Because, for
once in his orderly life, the governor fails to return at the time appointed, you at once imagine something dreadful must have happened
to him ; whereas if I were to remain away for days, you would say,
' Oh, he's sure to come back all right. No need to be uneasy

about him-one never can get rid of a bad shilling.' Moral-don't
marry a punctual man, Amy. Ah ! Hilda, you're just in time to
hear the pith of my sermon. If you desire to keep a quiet mind,
and to live to a good old age, never select a husband like the
governor. Here is Amy crying fit to break her heart because he did
not come back last night at nine o'clock, for all the world as if he
were housemaid in this strictly respectable establishment. "
" It does not strike me as a laughing matter," answered Miss
Gower, somewhat crossly; " fifty things might have happened to
your father."
" Of course they might, my dear," retorted the young man,
" and one of these days the sky might fall, but I do not think that
is likely."
" If you could be serious for a minute, John, I should like to
ask what you consider we had better do," said Miss Redworth.
" Do ! " repeated her brother, " what on earth do you mean ? "
"About papa not coming home, of course."
" I should suggest employing the town crier," answered her
brother. " How pleased the governor would be to hear, as he came
along Market Street, old Williams ringing his bell, and shouting,
' Lost, stolen, or strayed-Jeremiah Redworth, Esquire.' "
" I suppose you think all this very funny, John," remarked Miss
Gower, " but I confess your mirth strikes me as ill-timed. At
your father's age so many accidents may occur."
" A good many accidents may occur to a man at any age, "
said Mr. John Redworth, drily.
" I wish we could hear something about him, though," exclaimed
Miss Redworth .
" Pooh ! my dear," cried her brother, " you will have the governor
marching in here directly, cool as a cucumber, and fresh as a daisy,
after a fourteen miles' walk, and when you tellhim you felt uneasy
about his absence, he will say-
" Business detained me,' or ' I met an old friend, and we partook of a simple dinner at the " White Stag," where I slept. You
need never be uneasy about me, Amelia. "
Having delivered himself of which imitation of his father's curt
utterances and pompous tones, the younger Redworth finished his
breakfast in haste, though there was, for a wonder, abundance of
time and to spare before his train started, and saying he thought
he would be off, rose from the table and departed.
" He is like all men," commented Miss Redworth, " selfish and
unfeeling."
Miss Gower answered nothing. Toying with food, to which she
brought no appetite, her heart was singing a dull refrain-
" There is something the matter. Why did he go to Cadlebury,
and what has happened to detain my uncle ? ”
Both questions were destined to be repeated by other people,
besides Miss Gower, before many days had passed.
In the chain of circumstantial evidence so soon to entangle John

Redworth's future life, that morning's restlessness formed no slight
link. It had ever been his pleasant practice to reach the station
breathless, to start running when the final bell rang, to dart into
the first possible carriage-often as not into the guard's van after
the train was in motion; but to be too soon, that never happened
before in the experience of Ludham, and on the present occasion it
proved once too often.
" Why, there's Jack Redworth. I must be off," said young
Homer to his wife, leaving his breakfast almost untouched, and forgetting, in his hurry, to kiss the baby and to take his gloves.
" There's that John Redworth," remarked Mrs. Straitlace to her
husband. " You will be late again, Mr. S.; I wonder how it is that
you never can be induced to get up at a proper hour in the morning."
" What has come to our clock," exclaimed Mr. Harris ; " I told
you I thought we were all wrong last night, Mary. It is of no use
trying to catch that train now."
" Then you may as well have another cup of tea, and make
yourself comfortable," answered his sister, placidly.
As John Redworth passed along the High Street, Mr. Nunn, the
chemist, stood in slippered ease at his shop door, exchanging some
mild words of wisdom with his neighbour, Mr. Hazeldine, saddler.
" Good morning, Nunn-good morning, Hazeldine," said the
youngman in greeting as he approached.
"Good morning to you, sir. Lovely morning, ain't it ? "
severally replied the worthies addressed ; then, as their eyes followed
his retreating figure, Mr. Nunn observed to Mr. Hazeldine
" Something must have happened in Dorking Street. It wants
ten minutes to the hour yet, and the church clock is always striking
the quarter after, when he passes to the train."
" Shouldn't wonder if the father and he have had a row. Sure
to come some day. There are none so blind as those that won't
Бее.
If Old Redworth had not wilfully shut his eyes, he must have
known long ago the pranks his hopeful son has been up to."
" It is a pity, too," observed Mr. Nunn ; " for he is a fine young
fellow ."
" One of those fine fellows born with a capacity for bringing
nobles to ninepences," said Mr. Hazeldine, who considered himself
a bit of an orator, and had a reputation in the town for turning
neat sentences .
Why that morning of all mornings John Redworth, so proverbial
a sluggard, should have been unable to rest in his bed; why the
preceding evening of all evenings he had gone to Cadlebury, were
matters over which Ludham was puzzling its astute brains before
the next new moon.
But as yet there was no thought of harm having come to Mr.
Redworth ; even the members of his own household, so far the only
persons who knew of his absence, feared nothing worse than that an
accident had happened that a train had run off the rails-that he
had been attacked by sudden illness-that he had met with some

misfortune. It was in these and similar grooves that the thoughts
of Miss Redworth and Miss Gower travelled, as they sat wondering
what " could be detaining papa," or " when we shall hear anything
of uncle."
" Though papa is so active, still he is not very young," remarked
Miss Redworth; " and people do have fits and attacks of that kind
away from home. "
" You must not dwell upon such possibilities, dear," answered
Miss Gower, smoothing the antimacassar over her lap, the better
to catch the exquisite effect of the pattern. " Depend upon it, we
shall either see him about dinner-time, or have a letter by the second
post."
But the bright hours wore on-dinner-time came and passedthe postman's knock echoed down the deserted street, and still
nothing was seen of Mr. Redworth, neither did any letter arrive
from him.
About three o'clock there came a double knock at the front door.
" That's papa ! " cried Miss Redworth, forgetting her parent was
not wont to herald his advent in such fashion. "That's papa ! "
and she went on to the landing, and was half-way downstairs when
she stopped disappointed. It was only some one asking for her
father.
" No, sir, master is not at home," she heard the trim housemaid
answer .

" Do you know when he will be home, my girl ? " said a rich,
jolly, well fed voice, which Miss Redworth recognized as belonging
to a certain farmer, who owned a considerable amount of land lying
high above Ludham in a lonely region known as " The Wastes."
" No, sir, I don't," replied the housemaid a little stiffly, for she did
not care to be addressed as " My girl," by a visitor in the hall of
her master's house .
Such amenities, in her opinion, should be confined to Sunday
afternoons, and to the young men she honoured from time to time
with her smiles .
"Well, I suppose there is somebody in the house who knows
when he will be visible," insisted the visitor. " Just step up and
ask your mistress, Mary, my dear."
" My name ain't Mary, sir."
" All right, Sally then. Step up and ask your mistress. Servant, ma'am," continued the speaker, breaking off his address to
the obdurate fair, and turning to Miss Redworth, who at this juncture appeared on the staircase ; " I am just taking the liberty of
inquiring when you might be expecting Mr. Redworth. I have a
sort of appointment with him, and if I could see him this afternoon,
why I shouldn't have to make another journey into the town tomorrow. And that is how it is ."
" I am very sorry, but I really do not know when papa will be
home. He went to Cadlebury yesterday morning."
" Yes, I know he was at Cadlebury," interrupted Mr. Garland.

" I passed him yesterday evening on my return journey (I go to
Cadlebury twice a week, you understand), and offered to give him a
lift as far as the ' Dolphin,' but he would not have it."
" You passed him last night did you say, Mr. Garland ; about
what time was that ? " asked Miss Redworth ; and it seemed to the
poor lady as if a cold hand were laid upon her heart.
Yes, not without reason had she been afraid. All her apparently groundless alarm had been caused by a sure presentiment of
evil.
" Well, I couldn't say to a few minutes," answered Mr. Garland,
" but it must have been nigh upon nine, for I didn't start from
' The Three Fighting Cocks, -that is where I mostly put up, you
understand, miss-till after it had gone the half-hour. Oh ! it must
have been later nor that. I met Dick Winterly on the bridge, and
he hindered me awhile, and it would take me better than twenty
minutes to drive to Saul's Wood Corner. It must have been after
nine."
" Perhaps Mr. Garland would take a glass of sherry, Amy."
It was Miss Gower who said this-Miss Gower, who, hearing
voices in the hall, had come softly downstairs, and now touching her
cousin's arm, looked with a quick, warning glance, first towards
the kitchen and then in the direction of the dining-room. Miss
Redworth accepted the hint at once. " How could I be so thoughtless as to keep you standing here, Mr. Garland," she exclaimed ;

pray walk in and sit down; you must take a glass of wine."
" Well, thankee, miss," said Mr. Garland, whose normal condition
was that of chronic thirst. " I did find it main warm driving over
they Wastes ; there is not a bit of shelter this time of day, the sun
pours right down on every inch of the dusty road. If equally
agreeable, miss, excuse me, but I see the spirits is there ; wine always
do turn sour on my stomach. Much obliged, I'll just put in the
water for myself."
" Leave me to get out the things, Amy," said Miss Gower, gently
pushing her cousin into an arm-chair ; then, after placing brandy,
water, biscuits, and a tumbler on the table, she took a seat herself
and remarked-
" Mr. Garland, we are very uneasy about my uncle."
" Uneasy," he repeated, pausing in his employment of adding
that modicum of water, which indeed, except as a matter of appearance, might as well have been omitted. " I am sorry to hear that ;
what has happened ? "
" He never came home last night."
" Never came home ! why, bless my soul, I passed him at Saul's
Wood Corner on his way home."
" He has not returned, at any rate," said Miss Gower.
Mr. Garland took a draught of brandy and water, then he
replaced the tumbler on the table, laid the palms of his hands flat
on his knees, and remarked-
"Well, that's extraor'nary too."

" It is so extraordinary, Mr. Garland, that we do not know what
to think of it," commented Miss Gower.
"Never come home, not at all! " said Mr. Garland, struggling to
grasp the fact stated.
"We have never seen him since he started yesterday morning,"
put in Miss Redworth, speaking low and faint.
Mr. Garland looked at her, and comprehension dawned upon him.
" No, no," he entreated, " don't you go for to be frightened like
that. He'll be back soon, never doubt. Why, he was well enough
when I left him, though he seemed a bit put out about something.
There was nothing wrong with him, bless you. Take a glass ofwine,
miss. It'll do you good. She had better have a drop of something,
he added, turning a look of helpless appeal, which but for the
circumstances would have been ludicrous, towards Miss Gower.
" She had no sleep last night," explained that young lady, who
knew all the wines in bond would not prove of much service at the
moment to her cousin. " It was at Saul's Wood Corner, you say,
you parted from my uncle ? Three roads meet there, I think."
Mr. Garland nodded.
" Did you notice which he took ? "
"Well, to tell you the truth, I did not, miss," answered Mr. Garland, helping himself uninvited to more brandy, and feeling that the
exigencies of the position justified his doing so. " The upper road
is not good for about a mile thereabouts, and the mare was fresh, and
Mr. Redworth hadput up my monkey a bit, and we parted a trifle
short."
"Did you and papa quarrel then ? " asked Miss Redworth.
" No, not by no means," explained Mr. Garland. "You see,
miss, he was up in the stirrups, so to speak, rather on the high and
mighty ; and when a man makes another a civil offer of turning a
good three mile out of his way to give that other a lift, why he
don't take it kindly to have his nose snapped off, do he, ladies ? "
" I daresay not," agreed Miss Gower; " but if you only would
tell us exactly what passed, we should be so much obliged. We
should know better what to think."
" For the matter of that, miss, there is not a lot to tell. I was
driving along pretty sharp, for the mare she were fresh and keen to
get home, and not thinking of seeing your governor-Mr. Redworth,
Ishould say-along that road at that time of night, Ihad passed him
before it occurred to me who it was. Well, I pulled up, and ajob I
had with the mare to make her stop, and I backed her a few yards,
and your father came along stepping out brisk as he always does,
and so I said to him-
" You are out late, Mr. Redworth.'
"" No, sir, it's not particularly late so far as I am aware.'
" He spoke quite nettled like, but I took no notice ; I only said
in a neighbourly way-
"" It is late, at any rate, for you to be ten mile from home. Jump
up, and I'll give you a lift as far as the " Dolphin." I canjust as well

DHEYSTON

"Mr. Garland looked at her, and comprehension dawned upon him."
P. 24.

take the Trotterbeck Road home. The mare is not a bit tired, and
we can talk over that small matter of business of ours as we go
along.'
"" Sir,' he said, ' you are very good, and mean well doubtless,
but when I desire a conveyance I can afford to pay for one, and
when I wish to talk with you on business, I shall select a more
fitting time and place.'
" Well, this vexed me a trifle, ladies ; I had not meant to offend
him, and many as good a gentleman as your father has taken a lift
and thanked me into the bargain, so I made the remark
"" Something seems to have put you out, Mr. Redworth.'
" " Whether that be so or not, I apprehend '-yes that was the
word he used, and it struck me at the time as queer, because I
thought it meant something quite else-' I apprehend, sir, is no
concern of yours.'
" That did cut me. It was more the way he said it than the
words themselves. If I had been a beggar he could not have come
more the tol-de-roy sort of manner over me ; so I gathered up my
reins and answered, short you know, in as ' good as I got ' kind of
way, you understand-
" " You are quite right there, whether you are tired or cross is no
,
concern of mine, and I'm (begging your pardon, ladies, for
repeating the expression, but Iwas riled) if I make it mine. As
regards that matter, however, in which I suppose I may venture to
say I have some slight interest, I should like to get it settled one
way or another, and I'd be obliged if you would name your fitting
time and place for discussing it.'
" To-morrow afternoon,' he said, ' at my house in Dorking
Street ; three o'clock will suit me very well.',

" " I'm glad to hear anything suits you, I up and answered, for
indeed, ladies, he stirred my bile.
" " That will do, sir ; good night, sir,' he said, with a wave of his
hand ; and not to be left behind in politeness, I took my hat off
and made him a bow. There you have, I believe, all that took place.
I don't think another word passed between us."
"What can have become of him ? " conjectured Miss Gower,
uttering her thought aloud.
" That's the puzzle," said Mr. Garland oracularly.
" I-I must do something," cried Miss Redworth, rising and
laying her hand on the table. " I can bear this suspense no longer."
Miss Gower had risen too, and they both now stood looking
down upon Mr. Garland, who sat gazing with an expression of
profound wisdom into his brandy and water.
" Did he seem-did you notice if he had been at all--," and
Miss Gower's glance falling upon Mr. Garland's tumbler, supplied a
finish to the sentence.
" I know what you mean," said Mr. Garland, half closing one
eye in a manner indicative of genial comprehension. " Bless you,
no, not a sign of it on him. Sober as "-" I was," Mr. Garland 2

26 The Disappearance ofMr. Jeremiah Redworth.
had intended to say, but a doubt of the fitness of the simile crossing
his mind, he substituted- " the town pump."
" How could you ask such a question," remonstrated Miss Redworth, " when you know papa to be one of the most temperate of
men ? "
" Yes," answered Miss Gower, " and, as a rule, one of the most
equable," which remark cut two ways.
" Look here, ladies," said Mr. Garland, who had at length
eliminated an idea out of his tumbler, " would you like me to go to
Cadlebury, and just take a look round ?
" You've only to speak the word, " he went on, seeing that they
looked at each other, " and here am I, and there's the mare, both
at your service. She won't mind the run over, bless you, and I'd
feel it an honour, and I may add a pleasure, to do either of you a
service."
Having finished which sentence, Mr. Garland once again, as if
in utter absence of mind, helped himself to the contents of the
decanter.
Had he refrained from showing himself this final mark of
attention, Miss Redworth, in her despair, would have accepted his
help. As it was she said-
" Thank you, Mr. Garland ; but I think I had better telegraph
to my brother."
"Ah, yes ! " answered Mr. Garland, speaking sapiently, if
thickly. " Most like he'll understand all about it. No doubt it
was hearing of some of his pranks upset the governor."
" What do you mean ? " asked Miss Redworth, surprised out of
her usual slow reticence of manner.
" Oh, not much," replied Mr. Garland, " only I heard Mr.
Purslet say yesterday, if the chance offered, he would give the old
gentleman-your respected father, you understand, miss-a hint
of Master Jack's goings on."
" Goings on ? " repeated Miss Redworth. " How has my
brother been going on ? "
" Oh, I don't want to say anything against your brother, I am
sure, miss. A nice, free, affable young fellow as anybody need wish
to meet. But nobody can deny he does go the pace a bit too fast to
be always sure ; and now Mr. Purslet says he's getting himself
mixed up with a girl. Nothing wonderful about that, you think,
and you're right. There always is a girl-I have often remarked
the fact as curious, myself."
Mr. Garland was in so pleasant and communicative a frame of
mind that, much as the ladies desired to know all about this girl
whom he mentioned, both felt afraid of leading him on to further
revelations. As there was nothing, they felt satisfied, he would
refrain from telling, it seemed all the more necessary they should
refrain from asking.
Accordingly, they glanced at each other and remained silent,
while Mr. Garland, m sinterpreting such reticence, said, in a voice

rendered genially husky by the weather, his potations, and his
sympathy-
"Don't put any more questions, if you please. I should be
loth to refuse you anything, but this is a matter I would rather not
be mixed up in, if agreeable to present company. Mr. Redworth,
supposing he sees fit, can tellyou what Mr. Jack has been up to.
But lor ! young men will be young men, and I dare swear the
governor himself had an eye for a pretty face and a neat ankle
once upon a time. Only it's my belief it was hearing about that
put your father's temper up last night. I have small doubt when
I overtook him he hadjust come from Taunton Hall-been giving
Black Dick a taste of his mind, most like, and a nasty taste, I
expect, into the bargain."
" Black Dick ? " said Miss Redworth, inquiringly.
" Taunton Hall ? where is Taunton Hall ? " added Miss Gower,
almost in the same moment.

Why, Taunton Hall is that grim old house backing up against
the canal between Saul's Corner and Cadlebury. It looks right
over Wilderness Heath. And as for Black Dick, he's Squire
Taunton-save the mark-and brother to the prettiest girl in
Surrey, let that other be who she may-present company always
excepted."
There came a change over Miss Gower as Mr. Garland finished
his sentence. Always pale, she grew still paler ; her lips, never red,
became quite white ; across her eyes there fell a shadow. Miss
Redworth had not noticed it there ever before, and her voice
seemed altered when she opened her mouth and said-
" Amy, if Mr. Garland will excuse us, I think we ought to
telegraph to Trenhill. "
Broad as the hint was, Mr. Garland might have failed to take it,
had not Miss Redworth, after the slightest inquiry as to whether he
would like any more brandy, removed the decanter from the table
and locked it up.
" I hope you will pardon our leaving you, Mr. Garland," she
said, as she took the keys out of the sideboard. " I really feel
very uneasy about my father."
" If I can do anything for you, ladies," remarked Mr. Garland,
draining the last drop inhis tumbler, "you have only to speak the
word. There's me, and the mare, and the trap, quite at your
service."
But Miss Redworth did not speak the word, and Mr. Garland
departed, to spread the news through Ludham, and round and
about The Wastes, that Old Redworth was missing-" went to Cadlebury yesterday morning-has never turned up since, and there is
the deuce and all to pay in Dorking Street."

CHAPTER V.

THE BEGINNING OF THE SEARCH .

MR. TRENHILL REDWORTH, seated in the pleasant seclusion of a
dark office at the back of his warehouse in Tooley Street, received,
while engaged in writing letters for the evening post, this message
from his sister :-
" Something has happened about which I wish to speak to you.
Come down by first train. Let nothing detain you. "
Mechanically Mr. Trenhill counted the words of this telegram
before devoting his mind to solving its meaning. To his business
eye it seemed at first that his sister had needlessly exceeded the
regulation shilling's worth. Satisfied on this point, he began to
wonder what on earth Amelia could have to say to him.
She was not a woman of mystery, and if his father were dead,
or stricken with paralysis, he believed no fear of shocking him
would cause her to break the news in such a fashion as this .
"Get a South-Western time-table for July, and be quick
about it," he said to one of his clerks ; and, while the man ran off to
do his bidding, he changed his office-coat for that he wore out-ofdoors, brushed his hat, and marvelled “ what was up."
" Surely my father cannot be going to marry again," he considered; and yet the idea took such hold of him, that when he
looked at the time-table, and found that there was no train that he
could catch to Cadlebury for another hour, he decided to drive to
Somerset House on the chance of seeing his youngest brother, and
ascertaining from him what was in the wind.
" Hallo! what brings you here-what has happened ? " asked
John Redworth, whom he met lounging out into the Strand.
" That is precisely what I want to know," answered the other,
dismissing the cabman, and his remarks about the meanness of his
fare, with a wave of his umbrella. " I have just had this message
from Amy. Have you any idea what she means ? "
John Redworth glanced at the paper. " I expect the governor
has met with some accident," he answered. " He went to Cadleburyyesterday, and had not returned when I came off this morning.
I was laughing about it before I left-laughing at the notion of his
stopping out all night. I hope nothing serious has happened to the
dearoldchap."
"He has been a good father to you, John," said his brother,
sententiously.
"Yes, he has, better than I deserve," agreed the young fellow,
noticing, but not replying to the vague jealousy contained in
the remark, " but don't let us stop here-don't let us even chance
missing the next train. Amy might, I think, have been a trifle
more explicit."
"You do not happen to know that is, I suppose you have no

reason to imagine he had any plan inhis mind which might account
for his absence ? "
" I cannot imagine what you mean," was the reply.
"Well, coming along, and puzzling over Amelia's message,
I began to wonder whether he was going to marry again, or anything of that sort."
" Governor marry again ? That is a good joke," said the
favourite son, laughing heartily at the notion. " What could put
such an idea into your head, Trenhill ? "
" I don't know. It occurred to me as possible, that's all. So you
think there is nothing in it ? ”
" If the governor was up to any little game of that sort, he
has kept it precious close. Still, there is never any telling what
mischief a young elderly gentleman, with plenty of spare time on
his hands, may fall into," and John Redworth laughed again at the
expression of dismay on his brother's face. " If anything of that
sort were to happen," he went on, " I suppose we should soon all
get the route."
" It would fall hardest upon you," remarked Trenhill .
" Yes, I suppose it would," agreed his brother.
In the full blaze of the afternoon sun they travelled down to
Ludham in a train which, having been carefully placed out in the
heat to bake, with all the carriage windows shut, seemed red hot to
the passengers.
" Pheugh ! how warm it is," gasped John Redworth, letting in as
much air as is ever to be obtained at the Waterloo Station. " If we
were loaves, what fine ovens these compartments would make."
It was cooler by the time they reached Ludham, and in that
pleasant little country town a gentle air, fragrant with the smell of
hay, and the scents of roses and lilies, and clover and gillyflowers,
came rustling through the trim clean streets, and met the passengers who had travelled down from the noise and dust of London to
that rural spot, situate in the midst of green meadows, and surrounded by tranquilly flowing streams.
Somehow, after leaving the junction, both Trenhill Redworth
and his brother grew more silent and more silent still . Something
besides the calm quiet of the country fell across their hearts, and
as the bustling little engine sped now across wide stretches of
pasture land, and anon over bridges spanning sluggish rivers, and
the canal fringed with reeds and grasses of a strange and vivid
green, both men seemed disposed rather to look away towards
distant points of the ever-changing landscape, than to engage in
conversation .
At length talk between them ceased altogether, and in utter
silence they left the train at Ludham Station, and walked out into
the street leading up to the centre of the town.
As they paced along, many a curious glance and word of wisdom
followed them.
" That's the eldest son," remarked Mr. Nunn, the chemist.

"They've heard something, most likely," answered Mr.
Hazeldine .
" I wonder if Mr. Redworth has returned," said another.
"Very probably he has been up in London consulting his sons
there."
In the faces of all the persons who greeted him as he passed, John
Redworth might, had he noticed their expression have seen a look of
suppressed excitement, inquiry, and compassion. Every one felt
there must be something very wrong. Mr. Redworth had been
away all night, and, so far as they knew, two whole days in addition, and now there was Mr. Trenhill Redworth come down in
answer to a telegram from his sister-all Ludham knew of the
telegram within half-an-hour after its despatch-and he and young
Jack were walking up to Dorking Street, silent as Trappists, and
grave-looking as mutes.
Miss Redworth saw them coming to the house, and opened the
door before they could knock.
" Here I am, Amy, you see," said her eldest brother.
" Yes, Trenhill, I see," she answered, and immediately burst
into tears.
"He has not come home, then," suggested John Redworth.
"Have you heard anything of him ? " asked Trenhill, as she
shook her head in reply.
" Nothing," she sobbed. " Mr. Garland saw him last night at
Saul's Corner, and offered to give him a seat to the ' Dolphin,' but
he would not accept it."
" What have you done ? " asked Trenhill.
" I did not know what to do. I have left everything till I heard
what you would advise."
By this time Miss Gower was in the hall, and had shaken hands
silently and gravely with both brothers.
For a minute they all four stood quiet, no one uttering a word.
Then Trenhill asked-
" Had he money about him ? ”
"We cannot tell," answered Miss Gower.
"Where was he going in Cadlebury ? "
"We do not know," said Miss Redworth.
"He banked at Cadlebury, did he not ? " inquired the eldest
brother, practical and alert.
" Yes," replied John Redworth .
" Then the first thing to do is to get over to Cadlebury with all
speed," said Trenhill.
" We cannot manage it now by train," explained his brother, " so
we must hire a conveyance ; " which, however, proved easier said
thandone. In Ludham not a conveyance was to be had before the
next morning. All the horses were out, or tired, or bespoke.
No butcher even, or grocer, or tradesman of any description
could " oblige " Jack Redworth with the loan of a trap. In that
primitive region people were not accustomed to emergencies,

and had a general idea that emergencies, like most other things
with which they had to deal, could wait their convenience.
" What is to be done now ? " asked Trenhill, when his brother
returned and reported the failure of his mission.
" I shall walk over," answered the younger man, " and take my
chance of getting a conveyance back."
" I will walk with you," said the other, and without any further
discussion they started off.
" We had better go by the canal," remarked John Redworth
moodily, when they left the town behind. " He liked that way
best, and we may hear something of him at the locks."
"Very well," agreed Trenhill, and accordingly they walked
across the fields, stepping out briskly till they reached a lane which
conducted them straight to the canal bank.
Crossing the canal over a railway bridge, they got down on the
towing-path, and set their faces due west towards Cadlebury.
The whole of that walk burnt itself into John Redworth's
memory. Never while he lives will he forget the glory of light
which flooded the water, the trees bathed in the rich evening sunshine-the murmuring reeds standing out, thick though they grew,
one by one with a marvellous individuality. It is often present
with him how the shadow of the bridges fell athwart the canalhow deep the locks looked as they skirted their edges-how dark
the pine woods appeared, blocking up the sky at Saul's Cornerhow silent everything was ; so silent that the flutter of a bird
among the brushwood of the plantations, or the scurrying of a rabbit
across some bit of heath land, startled the two men, and caused them
to pause and ask, " What was that ? "
No tidings of Mr. Redworth at any lock-house they passed-no
news of him to be learned from any barge lying alongside the
banks, or floating lazily down with the sluggish current.
Two lock-keepers had noticed the gentleman, whom they knew
by sight, walking towards Cadlebury upon the previous morning,
but they did not see him return. The bargemen could give no
information at all.
One of their number was entreated if he heard any intelligence
of the person Mr. Trenhill Redworth described, to communicate
his news, good or bad, to Miss Redworth, in Dorking Street,
Ludham.
"You will find half-a-crown waiting there for you," said Mr.
Trenhill grandly, hearing which an old waterman seated in the bows,
dressed in a blue jersey and wearing a sou'-wester, laughed out, and
remarked-
" You must bid higher nor that, master. If we see him a going
down with the stream we wouldn't pick him out of the water for
four times over half of a crown. For why d'ye see-t'ain't a
pleasant job to begin with, and then there's a lot of bother arterwards, and a day, or may be two, or sometimes more, loss o' time
over the crowner bisness. It don't pay, sir, and that's the fact ;

and a working man's time's his money, and that's where it is.
Why, when young Mr. Leicester, the vicar's son at Allaton, was
missing-a half-witted chap, you may have heard tell on him-his
father had notices stuck about offering five shillings reward for
news of him. He advertised him, too, in the papers, and first and
last must have wasted a mort o' money over the lad. Well, at the
time lots of us on the Thames knew well enough where he was ;
down with one tide, up with another ; till at last when some one did
fish him ashore he could only be identified by his clothes. Five
shillings ! if the vicar had only made it pounds, he could have been
buried comfortably long enough before he got news of him. If you
think of it, sir, five pounds ain't none too much."
" Come away ; come on, for Heaven's sake, Trenhill," said John
Redworth, looking quite sick and faint.
" Don't like it, sir," remarked the old sinner, with a grim smile ;
" why, that's just what it is ; we don't like it neither, and two and sixpence can't make us like it. However, we have seen nothing on the
canal such as you enquired about ; no gentleman with an umbrellano hat a floating-no nothing. Thanking you, sir, and hoping you
will find him safe and sound on dry land," and the man pocketed
the money the younger Redworth flung him, and the sun wrapped
the barge round with a golden glory, and illumined the old waterman's jersey and sou'-wester, as though he had been some rare
missal adorned with a thousand varying tints and cunning devices.
Almost immediately after parting company with him, they
reached a spot where the canal came to a sort of fork, one arm of
which went straight through pleasant fields and smiling hamlets,
whilst the other branched off into a dark and lonely region, bordered
on one side by a wood of stunted oak trees, and on the other by
pine plantations, reaching down to the water's edge.
" What a dreary place ! " exclaimed Trenhill Redworth, as they
crossed a narrow foot-bridge, and found themselves on a path evidently little used, where the branches of the oak trees brushed their
hats, and the acorns and oak-apples of the previous autumn lay
thick beneath their feet. " What a horribly dreary place. It might
be a thousand miles from London, in an uninhabited land. It is like
some picture I have seen of a deserted clearing in the far west. See
how weird those felled trees stripped of their bark look, lying on
the opposite bank. How white they are and ghostly, stretching up
skeleton arms from the ground. And that liule bay quite choked
up with rushes ! I never saw reeds in such rank luxuriance before.
It is awfully lonely, John. Do you know, ifyou were not with me
I should feel afraid."
Twenty-four hours previously John Redworth would have treated
such a statement with boisterous derision, but a change had come
over him, and the gloom of the silent pines and the mysterious
desolation of the oak wood, the sullen darkness of the lonely canal,
and the dense vegetation on the other side of the water, where
reeds grew rank, and weeds and grasses tangled themselves in

inextricable confusion, affected even his spirits, and touched his soul
with melancholy.
It was a place and hour for despondency ; the sun had sunk
below the horizon, and in lieu of purple, and gold, and crimson, sad
grey lines streaked the darkening sky.
Around them there was utter silence, a silence which could be
felt ; about them everything saddest and gloomiest in nature seemed
closing-in the distance, far along the path they were traversing, the
woods on each side the water seemed to meet and close the way ;
stretching where the pines grew densest far beyond its original
limits, the canal looked like a darkling lake.
Even in the noontide of a summer's day that lonely spot more
resembles some pictured scene in the tropics, than a landscape in
fair, pensive Surrey, and with the evening shadows drawing down
over dark fir-trees and weird distorted oaks-over glades where
mosses had grown tenderly and softly along the rotten trunks and
branches of fallen trees-over the reeds and bulrushes rustling in
the night air, which already, beside the water, began to feel damp
and chilly-over broken locks through which no barge had passed
for years, and bridges too rotten to bear even the weight of a child,
the spot appeared so eerie and mysterious, so sympathetic with
mystery and sorrow, or crime, that Mr. Trenhill Redworth, a man
who had small appreciation of nature even in her most joyous
moods, might well be excused the nervous tremor which found
expression in the sentence repeated.
" It is a lonely place," agreed his brother, whose own associations with that stretching, watery highway were perhaps none of
the pleasantest . " Like everything else, which having served its
purpose is laid on the shelf, the canal looks dead ; and, in fact, has
been dead this many a year. The living branch we left behind us
at Saul's Corner, the reeds and the weeds will choke this all up
some fine day, and then we shall not be troubled any more with a
canal once useful which is useful no more. I never come here but
I think of one of the main coach roads ; there are plenty of them on
the Middlesex side of the Thames, with the grass growing where
the hoofs of four spanking horses used to make good music. What
shall we have to put railways out of court, Trenhill ? Here is what
not very long ago was a very grand water highway, and look at it
now. Just on the other side this wood to our left runs the South
Western Railway. Hark, there goes an express to Portsmouth οι
Southampton ! How will our great-grandchildren, or, for that
matter, our grandchildren travel ? An interesting question, if
you believe that the progress of the future will be even as slow as
the progress of the past."
" I care nothing about the future," answered Mr. Trenhill Redworth, irritably ; " or, for that matter, the past either ; the present
is always quite sufficient for me. What on earth could induce my
father to select such a road as this for walking in the middle of the
night ? "
2*

" If that Garland man really did see him at Saul's Corner on
hiswayhome, he took the other side of the canal, and would not
get on the bank till he crossed the bridge at Trotterbeck. "
" Then, why on earth, did you select this confounded
road ? "
" I am sure I cannot tellyou," answered his brother ; "only," he
went on, " it did not seem likely we should hear much of him on a
lonely country road."
"Where, supposing him to have selected this cheerful way home,
would he be most likely to touch the canal ? "
" Just where we spoke to those fellows on the barge ; this, you
understand, would be the route he took in the morning. Supposing
Garland to have been correct in his statement, which is doubtful,
the man being, except as regards his business capacity, always more
or less befuddled with drink, he had from Saul's Corner the choice
of two direct routes ; he could go straight along the Trotterbeck
Road, which would bring him out near Ludham Station ; or he
could, by crossing Trotterbeck Bridge, get on the canal bank, and so
back to Dorking Street the way we have come. There is not much
difference in the number of steps, only in the day-time the cana!
and thefields are the coolest."
" It is all most mysterious," said the elder brother.
" Awfully mysterious," answered the younger, shivering. “ I
hope we shall obtain some clue at Cadlebury."
" What could induce a man at my father's time of life to take
such a walk as this ."
" Well, you see he was fond of walking, and after all, for one so
light and active, it is not much of a distance."
" I know my legs are aching, at any rate," said the other.
" You are not accustomed to so many miles straight out,"
answered John.
He was singularly mild and conciliatory. Even at the time
this change of manner struck the elder brother as curious. Hitherto
this Benjamin of the Redworth household had been more prone to
jeer than to excuse, to scoff than to sympathize, and it seemed
remarkable to hear him reply in such measured and unobjectionable sentences .
" What is that strange-looking place across the water ? " said
Trenhill Redworth , after a pause, devoted to considering how nice
John could be when he laid aside his " West End " manners ; and
as he spoke he paused, and pointed through the gathering twilight
to a building on the opposite side of the canal. " Is it a church or
a castle ? "
" It is neither," replied his brother. " It is Taunton Hall."
"Why, that is where Amy said Mr. Garland thought my father
must have called."
" It is not improbable."
"Then why did we not go that way, and make enquiry at the
house ? "

" You forget. Mr. Garland overtook him at Saul's Corner,
which we have long passed."
" True ; I had forgotten that. But why should he have called so
late in the evening at Taunton Hall ? Was he intimate with the
owner ? "
"No-certainly not."
" Then, I repeat, why should he call? The p'ace looks a ,

mansion. The people who live there are great swells, I suppose ?
" Quite the contrary. Dick Taunton, the present squire, is
considered the black sheep of the county."
"And why ? "
" I do not know. I know facts-I can't pretend to state causes.
The place is in bad odour, and, by consequence, the people who
live there. The last owner but one elected to be buried in his own
garden, without help of sexton, clergyman, undertaker, or any
of the conventional assistants ; and ever since, even the children
skurry past Taunton Hall and say it is haunted. Of course, a man
who lives in a haunted house, with one ofhis progenitors planted
out in the garden, must be a very bad man. At least, such is the
opinion of all the people who reside round and about this quarter.
It is a queer old place. Might be made very beautiful and very
imposing; but the present Squire is letting it go to wreck
andruin."
"Why on earth should my father call there, instead of going
back by train to Ludham ? ”
" The only reason I can imagine for his doing so, is that I know
Dick Taunton, and very likely the governor called to tell him he
would cut me off with a brass farthing, if the acquaintance were not
discontinued. "
" Is this Mr. Taunton a very disreputable person, then ? " asked
Trenhill Redworth .
" Most people think he is," was the reply.
"And what do you think ? " persisted the other.
" He is a friend of mine, and, contrary to the custom of friends,
I decline to abuse him."
" Then you cannot defend him ? "
" Surely his bad or good qualities do not concern you ? "
" Only so far as this, my boy," said Trenhill Redworth, laying
an affectionate hand on his brother's shoulder, " if he be disreputable, we don't desire to see you associated with him."
" That is very kind of you, Trenhill, since there cannot be the
slightest doubt that some day-say to-morrow-the governor will
order me out of the house because I decline to dissever myself from
Richard Taunton. Cheer up," he added, there will be all the
more left for you, and Gower, and Amy."
" What does all this mean, John ? "
" It means that as every family must have its scapegrace, I
propose to represent that character in ours. In each thousand, so
many per cent. go to the devil. I am one of the percentage, and I

am going to the devil. I have been travelling that nice easy road
for many a long day."
" I don't like this, John. You shouldn't talk so wildly. "
"Do you suppose I like it ?" was the fierce rejoinder. "Do
you imagine there dawns a day when I fail to kick against the
pricks, and wish-unavailingly-I could get rid of the bad Bohemian blood in me, which hates restraint, and rebels against the
awful decorous-killingly decorous life in Dorking Street ? I ought
to have been a soldier, Trenhill. Some day, I suppose, I shall
enlist. The old restless Viking blood will have its way, even in
the midst of civilization. Look, there are the dim religious lights
of Cadlebury. Let us push on."
When they reached Cadlebury, they found the manager of the
"All England," where Mr. Redworth banked, unbending his mind
over a game of backgammon with his wife.
It would be, perhaps, unfair to say he welcomed any interruption
of this pastime; but most undoubtedly he greeted John Redworth
with effusion, and when he heard the cause which had brought the
two brothers so far from home at so late an hour, threw himself
heart and soul into the business.
"Money about him," he repeated. "I should think he had,
indeed. I will give you all particulars in a few minutes. Let me
see! " And having by this time lit the gas, and produced some
ponderous books, he opened them and ran his eye from one to
another, in search of the information required.
" Yes," he said at last, speaking across to the two Redworths,
who stood on the other side of the counter in the bank, which
seemed strangely silent and empty. " Yes, I was right. Five
hundred in notes, and a bill at sight on London for nine hundred
more."
" Good heavens ! he has been robbed and murdered." It was
Trenhill Redworth who uttered this exclamation. John, leaning
against the counter, and looking white and faint, spoke never a
word.
" I would not fear the worst," said the manager, kindly. "The
first thing to do is to ascertain where he went after leaving here."
" A Mr. Garland saw him last night, about nine o'clock, at a
place called Saul's Corner, if you know where that is," answered
Trenhill Redworth.
" Saul's Corner ? Why, it's on the way to Ludham; and he
distinctly told me he meant to return home by rail."
"At any rate, Mr. Garland says he overtook him at the point
I have mentioned, and offered to give him a lift, which he
declined."
" It looks awkward," remarked the manager, after a pause.
" You had better set the police to work. Shall I send and ask the
superintendent to step down here ? "
" No, we will go to the office. By-the-bye, you can give me
the number of the notes, of course ? "

" Yes, they ought to be stopped. "
" I will return to London to-night, and get to the bank as soon
as it opens in the morning."
" There is an express at 10.5. You will have time to see the
superintendent, and take a bit of supper before starting. I will go
up with you to the office, if agreeable."
All this time John Redworth never opened his lips. Like one
dazed, he accompanied his brother and the manager to the policestation, and when there he volunteered no statement, and started no
conjecture as to the possible cause of his father's disappearance .
All the talking he left to his companions, and it was not till the
superintendent addressed him that he uttered a word.
" You were at Cadlebury last evening, too, Mr. John," remarked
the inspector.
" Yes," answered the young man.
" And at Taunton Hall," added Mr. Policeman, with a knowing
look .
" Yes, I was at Taunton Hall . "
"You did not see anything of Mr. Redworth on your way back
here ? "
" No, I did not come back here. I walked across to Malby,
and took the train from that station."
"I see. Well, your father might have done the same thing."
" If he had he would have turned through the wood instead of
going on to Saul's Corner ; besides, I don't fancy he was acquainted
with the short cut across Malby Mead. "
" Mr. Garland might have been mistaken as to the exact place
where he overtook him. "
" Mr. Garland had an idea my father walked home in order to
call at Taunton Hall," said Trenhill Redworth .
" What the ——, ahem ! " exclaimed the inspector, suddenly
breaking out, and as suddenly checking himself.
" We had better ascertain whether Mr. Redworth did call
there," he went on after a moment's pause. " He may have said
something to the Squire about where he was going. I think I will
take a walk over to the hall now."
" I will walk over with you," offered John Redworth, " it is all
on my way home."
" Can't you get back to Ludham by train ? " asked his brother.
" I would rather do it on foot," answered the young man.
It was a dreary walk out to Taunton Hall, and, as the inspector
remarked afterwards, " Mr. Jack was not the liveliest of company."
In effect he scarcely opened his lips the whole way-a marvellous change for one who had ever been free of speech, and almost
too ready of tongue.
" Seems as if everybody had gone to bed," observed the policeman, as they passed up to the back entrance of late years the
front hall door had never been opened " there is not a light in any
of the windows ."

"Let us try, at any rate," said his companion, applying his
hand to the bell pull, and ringing a loud peal, which seemed to
echo through the lonely house. "Here comes some one," he added,
as a light flickered across the hall, and the sound of heavy footsteps
was heard tramping over the stone floor. A noise of bolts being
withdrawn, and locks unfastened, and then the door was flung wide,
and Squire Taunton, holding a lamp in his hand, peered out into
the darkness.
" It is I, Dick," explained John Redworth. " Can we come in
for a minute ? "
" Surely, lad ; but what's this--and what's the matter ? "
"Matter enough," answered the inspector ; " at least we are
afraid there is Mr. Jack's father is missing."
" Missing ! What do you mean ? Come in, and tell me what has
happened."
As he spoke he led the way into a small room, poorly and even
meanly furnished with old-fashioned chairs and tables, of almost
obsolete design, and battered with the wear and tear of years.
Though it was summer, a wood fire smouldered on the hearth, and
quite evidently the Squire had been drinking, for a decanter of
spirits and a half-emptied tumbler stood upon the table.
" Sit down," he said, " and tell me what has gone wrong."
" Well, you see, Squire, it is a very awkward-looking business.
Here is a gentleman leaves Cadlebury with, as far as we know, a
matter of fourteen hundred pounds about him-he is last seen on
the road home at nine o'clock, or thereabouts, and from that time to
this nobody has set eyes upon him."
" Where was he last seen ? " asked Mr. Taunton.
" At Saul's Corner, by Mr. Garland, who offered to give him a
lift, which he refused," said John Redworth, gloomily.
" And he has never been seen since ? "
"Never, so far as we can learn," answered the inspector.
" What we came here to know, Squire, was if he called on you last
night, and whether he gave you any hint as to where he was going ? "
" Call on me ! " repeated Mr. Taunton. " What induced you to
imagine he should do such a thing ? I know nothing of Mr. Redworth. I never spoke to him in my life."
" Mr. Garland thought he had called, at all events," said the
inspector.
" Did he tell Garland he meant to do so ? "
" No, it was only the old fellow's notion," answered John Redworth, quickly, and as he did so the superintendent looked at him
with a certain curiosity.
" Then he did not call here, Squire ?" returned that functionary,
after a pause so slight it seemed scarcely worth noticing.
"Not to my knowledge. I was away though all day at Fadesley,
and did not get home till between eleven and twelve. If he had
called though I should have been sure to hear of it. I will ask my
sister, if you like, but I am positive he never came to this house.

Help yourselves," he suggested, placing some more glasses on the
table. " There is cold water in that jug, and hot in the kettle,"
after which exercise of hospitality, he left the room.
" Won't you have a drop of something, Mr. Jack," asked the
superintendent, drawing his own chair forward and turning to the
young man, who sat with one elbow resting on his knee, and his
head supported by his hand. " You look regular done up. Do, sir,
have just a nip to pull you together and keep the night air out."
" Let me alone, will you," retorted Mr. John Redworth. "This
is not a time for me to be drinking."
In his heart Mr. Inspector thought it was probably not a time
for the young gentleman to be making merry. He had his own
theory about the matter, and as it happened to be that Mr. Redworth's youngest son knew pretty well what had happened to his
father, he did not feel much surprise at his refusal to partake of
strong liquors.
"Wants to keep his head clear," thought the astute officer.
" He does not manage the sorrowful and downcast business badly
either, though I dare say he feels a bit vexed too."
As he poured the rum in his own glass and added some cold
water, he stole another glance at his companion.
" Ay, he could tell us all we ask to know," decided Mr. Inspector,
taking a long pull at his rum-and-water, after which refreshment
he drew a long breath, and said audibly, " Ah ! "
" No, he did not call here," said Mr. Taunton, re-entering the
room at this moment, and then he sat down and mixed for himself,
and he and the superintendent sat for a little while talking over
the matter, discussing the pros and cons in true country gossiping
fashion, till John Redworth interrupted the conversation.
" I can't stand this any longer," he remarked, getting up and
looking about him with a dazed sort of uncertainty. " I must get

home, and hear if they have any tidings there. Dick , can you spare
me a trap of any kind ? I begin to feel knocked up ; I don't think
I could walk to Ludham to-night. If you will let me have the
dog- cart, it shall be sent back to you early in the morning."
" Never mind about that," said the Squire, heartily ; " you can
have the trap and welcome. Should you like me to drive you
over ? you don't look much fit to go alone."
" With your leave, Mr. Jack," interposed the inspector ; " if
you are going to drive to Ludham, I'll go along with you. It will
be better for me to see some of our people over there at once. Too
much time, to my thinking, has been lost already."
" Hold the light then while I put in the mare," suggested Mr.
Taunton ; and so saying, he thrust a lantern into the man's hand,
and led the way across the yard to his stables.
" Seems to take it bad, don't he, Squire ? " remarked the
inspector, nodding towards the house where John Redworth still
remained .
" Yes, he does ; and that is strange, too, since we can't tell for

certain whether anything out of the way has happened to the old
man or not ."
I fancy there ain't much room for doubt about that. When a
gentleman of Mr. Redworth's habits disappears as if the earth had
opened and swallowed him up and the money he was carrying up,
I think there can't be any great ground for expecting that he'll
show for breakfast, say at nine o'clock to-morrow morning.”
Mr. Taunton shivered ; he was putting on the mare's collar at
the moment, and she feeling the unwonted tremor laid back her
ears, and plunged nervously.
" Steady, steady !" exclaimed her master . " Stand clear of her
heels, man. Perhaps, after all " he went on pulling the mare's
mane from underneath her head band-" perhaps after all Redworth had not any money about him ; he may have paid it away in
Cadlebury. There is a deuce of a while, you know, between the
time the bank closes and nine o'clock at night, and he seems to have
been at the bank early."
" There is ; but when the mystery is cleared up I think you will
find he had the money on him."

They have stopped payment, I suppose ? "
" The elder brother is going to do that first thing in the
morning."
Pity he had not done it first thing this morning," commented
the Squire.
" As I understand, he knew nothing about the matter till
between four and five to-day."
" But Jack knew, why didn't he see to it ? "
"Mr. Jack is a careless sort of young gentleman," was the
sapient answer. " Altogether he has let a lot of valuable time slip
through his fingers."
" Shall you be coming back this way ? " asked Mr. Taunton,
taking no apparent notice of the reflection on his friend's promptitude, and shoving the shafts of the dog-cart in the tugs as he spoke.
" Very likely I shall, sir, though Ican't say for certain."
" If you do, call as you pass, and tell me if anything has been
heard of the old gentleman. He might have fallen into the canal,
you know."
" He might," agreed the inspector, drily; " at any rate I suppose
we shall know more about it before we are much older."
In which idea, however, Mr. Superintendent chanced to be
mistaken .

CHAPTER VI .
MR. GARLAND'S STATEMENT.

By eleven o'clock the next morning it was known all over Ludham
that Mr. Trenhill Redworth had telegraphed to his sister the news
of the notes having been changed on the previous day. At a very

much earlier hour Ludham, waking from slumber, learned there was
no news whatever of Mr. Redworth ; not a trace of him could be
found. If, to quote the policeman's words, the earth had opened
and swallowed him up, his disappearance could not have been more
complete or mysterious ; and the population of Ludham stood about
in groups wondering what could have become of him. Throughout
the day people strained their eyes across the fields, and idled along
the banks of the town river and the more remote canal, vaguely
expecting to see coming from some remote distance the body of
Mr. Redworth-alive or dead. It seemed incredible to the mind of
Ludham that so old a resident should never return to it. If it
could bury him with every mark of respect, and have its curiosity
satisfied as to the manner of his decease, the town might have been
satisfied ; but as matters stood, everything was so unsatisfactory that
all the inhabitants seemed suddenly to grow demoralized. They
neglected their business ; people talked familiarly to those with
whom they had only the slightest acquaintance, the dissenting
minister compared notes with the priest, and the collector of poor
rate fell into friendly conversation with the man he had summoned
three days before.
To the surprise of the whole town, John Redworth had gone up
to London that morning as usual.
" It was strange," Ludham said. " It would have seemed more
natural for him to stay with his sister."
Not that his sister lacked company, it may be remarked.
Directly after breakfast visitors began to wend their way towards
the trim house in Dorking Street, and all day long callers came
and went, exchanged greetings with each other on the staircase, and
in the drawing-room exhorted Miss Redworth to " keep up."
The hours went by-the sunny, weary hours and still there
came no news of Mr. Redworth. Amongst all the visitors, that
one most eagerly looked for, most anxiously expected, never arrived.
Living or dead, Mr. Redworth never again crossed the threshold of
his owu house. He had left his home in the bright light of as fine
a summer's morning as ever dawned, and no noon, or afternoon, or
evening that afterwards shone for others saw him return. He
came back no more ; not a creature beheld him again walk down
the street, or pace steadily from the Railway Station. His place in
church was never filled again by him. He was gone, without the
escort of kindly friends and mercenary mutes-without the conventional proprieties of nodding plumes and elaborate hat-bands
and mourning coaches, and red-faced undertakers he had disappeared ; and left nor sign nor token as to how and whither he was
departed.
It is no exaggeration to say that the whole country side was
talking about the missing man, the mystery of whose disappearance
deepened with every fresh fact elicited concerning him.
From the statement of the Bank of England people it seemed
that an elderly gentleman, calling himself Jeremiah Redworth, and

giving his address Dorking Street, Ludham, Surrey, had on the
previous morning exchanged some notes for gold.
He came in a cab and went away in a cab, the driver of which
being discovered, stated that he took up the gentleman in Lombard
Street, and after a short delay at the Bank, set him down at the
London Bridge Terminus. Heard his fare inquire when there
would be a train for Brighton.
The gentleman was stout built, but seemed old and feeble.
Both he and a railway porter helped him out of the cab. He spoke
in a low voice, as though tired or ill.
The notes thus changed, it seemed, were those obtained from
Messrs . Williams, Deacon, and Co., who cashed the draft, payable
at sight, over the counter. The person who presented it asked for
the amount " short ."
As for the other notes, gold was taken for them, both earlier
in the day and later in the one case the bearer gave the name of
a gentleman residing in North Audley Street-in the other that of a
builder at Bow.
When matters came subsequently to be fully investigated, it
turned out that by a singular coincidence the gentleman resident in
North Audley Street was abroad, and the builder of Bow lying ill of
a fever at the time their names were used, and it was therefore
assumed that the addresses had been taken at random from the
Directory.
Nothing seemed to connect either with the affair, and no special
attention had been given to the appearance of the persons who
presented the notes.
But the circumstances surrounding the cashing of the draft were
different.
The signature was not a bad imitation of Mr. Redworth's
handwriting. His caligraphy had never been slovenly. Though
gentlemanlike, it was clear, sharp, neat, with a tiny flourish here and
there, at once oldfashioned and apologetic.
Experts, as usual, took different sides when their opinion on the
question came to be asked. One eminent gentleman declared positively it must be the signature of the missing man, giving various
cogent reasons for the conclusion he had formed ; while another
gentleman, equally famous, urged several arguments why it could
not be the handwriting of Mr. Redworth-admitting, however, that
it was a most admirable forgery.
Several friends who had been intimate with the late government clerk for years, said-
" That's Redworth's copperplate, right enough ; " but the
manager of All England, and the clergyman of Ludham, said the
signature was a stiff and poor imitation of the original, while Mr.
Garland declared recklessly-
" He'd have known it to be a counterfeit half a mile off."
Still, the doubt added a fresh piquancy to the mystery. Could
it be that the old gentleman had really levanted with his own

money? " was aquestion men began to put to each other, whilst
ladies, who looked with suspicion on the conduct of their own
husbands, shook their heads and remarked, there " was no telling."
Even Mr. Trenhill Redworth could not get that idea of a second
marriage out of his head, and for a time at least public opinion set
strongly in favour of the idea that Mr. Redworth had fallen into
the hands of some designing woman, and that he would be heard of
when all the money was spent.
"Because, if you think of it," said the representative Miss
Gadabout, of Ludham," why should the poor old gentleman have
drawn out all that money, when he could just as easily have paid by
cheque ? Depend upon it, there is a woman at the bottom of the
mystery, and I should not wonder at all myself if she turns out to
be a widow."
That there was no known widow in the whole circle of Mr.
Redworth's acquaintances likely to have wrought such ruin,
only served to render this solution of the enigma more captivating.
Such a wide field was at once offered for idealism, that Ludham for a time literally lost its head in rambling about the pastures
of conjecture, where imaginary widows roved at will and spirited
away elderly gentlemen possessed of well-lined pocket-books,
It was whilst Ludham was still holding fast to this idea of a
mysterious elopement, that Trenhill and Gower Redworth, laying
their heads together, decided to offer a reward of £5 for information concerning the whereabouts of an elderly gentleman missing
from his home in Ludham. Height, five feet ten inches ; very spare
in figure, upright, quick walker ; thin face, grey eyes, aquiline
nose, grey hair and whiskers ; linen marked J. R. Was last
seen at Saul's Corner. Any intelligence would be thankfully received by Miss Redworth, Dorking Street, Ludham ; Trenhill
Redworth, Tooley Street, London ; Messrs. Smiler and Kiler,
Lincoln's Inn Fields ; or the Superintendent of Police, Cadlebury,
Surrey.
" You won't make much by that move, Gower," John Redworth
was overheard to say at Ludham Station, as the two brothers paused
to look at the posterjust pasted up. " Much better to have offered
ahundred pounds, or even more, at once."
" There is no use in wasting money," answered his more cautious
elder. " It is easy to increase the reward if this brings us no intelligence. We will wait a little."
So Mr. Gower Redworth, and Ludham generally, waited, but of
Mr. Redworth, senior, there came no tidings. Upon the solicitors
in Lincoln's Inn Fields there called indeed a certain Mr. Blex, who
stated he had been expecting to hear from Mr. Redworth concerning
a farm that gentleman desired to purchase. The matter, it appeared,
was so far advanced that on the Saturday subsequent to the date of
his disappearance, Mr. Redworth was to have paid him, Mr. Blex,
a deposit upon the transaction.

It was well known to Messrs. Smiler and Riler that their
nominal client had a passion for conducting his own legal business, as far as possible, without the assistance of solicitors.
He never came to them till he wanted matters set what he
called " a little to rights ; " and, putting two and two together, the
firm arrived, without difficulty, at the conclusion that Mr. Redworth
intended to devote a considerable part of the proceeds of the bank
post-bill to arranging preliminaries with Mr. Blex.
But then, what did he mean to do with the remainder, and with
the notes ?
Mr. Garland could tell them that.
" I've as pretty a bit of land, sir, as you'd wish to see," he remarked to Mr. Smiler, who made a journey to Ludham with a
view of reducing order out of the chaos reigning there, and who went
about listening to the small-talk of the town, and " gathering
facts " together which he could arrange methodically at his leisure-
" as sweet a bit as you'd find between this and London, though
I says it, as perhaps oughtn't. It lies just on the slope of the hill
looking away towards Dangermere. I've got the mare here. She's
standing at the inn round the corner. I can run you up to the
very spot in half an hour, and if you'll let me take you round to my
house, you can have whatever you like to put a name on, in the
‫دو‬

way of spirits . Come, let me persuade you."
" Thank you very much, Mr. Garland," said Mr. Smiler, quietly.
" Some other time I may avail myself of your offer; but just
now I am trying to get some light thrown on the mystery of our
poor friend's disappearance, and I fear that going with you to see
the charming place you mention would not greatly help forward
our enquiry."
" There's a deal of truth in what you say, sir," agreed Mr.
Garland, respectfully. " But it is a lovely piece of land, and lying
dead on my hands now, in a manner of speaking. For over a year
past Mr. Redworth has been very sweet upon it, casting sheep's
eyes, as it were, every now and then over the fences. It does not
greatly fit in with the rest of my freehold ; for a three-sided field
of Blex's cuts it most away from the other part, d'ye see ? "
" I see," said Mr. Smiler, nodding.
" So one day, when Mr. Redworth says to me, 'Garland, ifIwas
to take a fancy to that slice of land of yours, a-looking over Dangermere, would you sell it, and what wouldyou want for it ? ' I made
answer that as for selling it, I didn't care if I did, always providing
I got its full value, or thereabouts. ' For,' I explained, ' I think I
should have more than the bare price as earth. Some day, Mr.
Redworth,'-this was how I put it-' when Mr. Blex is dead, them
as comes after him will give a fancy figure for that bit o' frontage.
Thrown all together, it would make a compact little estate. Anybody as gave his mind to it might build a nice genteel cottage
orny there, as the saying is.' ' That is what I should do if I gave
my mind to it,' he answers, and went away, and I heard nothing

more about the matter for months-not indeed till a week or ten
days before I saw him last, when he says, ' I wish you'd set a
price on that there slice o' land, and give me the refusal of it for
a month. "
" And did you ? " asked Mr. Smiler.
" Well, sir, to be straightforward, as such is always best, I did
not. I was, as it happened, a trifle hard up at the time, and
I thought he might as well settle his mind and mine about the
matter at once ; for which reason I fixed a price and said he might
either take it or leave it within the fortnight. Directly I had
done so, Blex comes to me, and he says, ' I want that outlying few
acres of yours, farmer, looking down on Dangermere. They ain't
o' no manner o' use to you, and I can work them in with my lot.
What price do you set on them ? ' So I told him Mr. Redworth
had the refusal of them, and he smiled, and said, ' Deep old file,
that ! Well, it don't make much difference.' Then I surmised
Mr. Redworth was after his land too."
" You were right," remarked Mr. Smiler. "Go on."
" I thought it over, and jest shoved the mare into harness, and
drove down to Dorking Street. Being hard up as it happened,bear that in mind, please, sir,-I thought I would try and bring
my gentleman to book. So I says to him-this is the remark I
made-' Mr. Redworth, sir, Mr. Blex has been with me a-hankering
arter that bit o' land, and I must ask you, please, to make up your
mind for good about it before Saturday week, as arter that I'll let
him or anybody else have the slice, as'll give me my price. The
fact is,'-I did not hesitate to tell him this (there's no false shame
about me, Mr. Smiler. Always paid my way honest, and always
hope to do so; but the best of men may be cornered once in a
way) . The fact is, I've pressing need of a trifle of cash, and
I expect the value of that mossil would put me a good bit to the
right side.'"
" Very straightforward indeed," commented Mr. Smiler ; " and
what said Mr. Redworth ? "
" Oh ! he acted honourable too, I'll say that of him. He made
me this answer-' I can't tell you for certain by the time you name
whether I shall buy the land or not ; but, whether I do or no,
you shan't be stuck for a few hundreds. If I don't purchase
I'll lend. "
" Most extraordinary ! " ejaculated the lawyer.
"Wasn't it, sir ? I could scarce believe my ears . I felt quite
mazed, in a manner ; but I thanked him, and said I only wanted to
get what I needed in a regular way, and that if he would but make
up his mind one way or other, I could have all I wanted from my
bankers, without fear or favour."
" And what was the upshot ? "
" I could get nothing more from him than that he would manage
it all-that I should not be ill-convenienced. He was quite agreeable, and let out he had a fancy for building a house up on The

Wastes for the ' young couple. But I haven't quite decided yet,
Garland,' he said, ' so don't you tell nothing to nobody. It is time
Mr. John and my niece were thinking about settling,' he says,
'and I suppose I shall have to make them a wedding present.
The first time you are in Ludham again, give me a call, and
we can talk the matter over at our leisure .'
" I never saw Mr. Redworth after, if you believe me, sir, except
when I overtook him at Saul's Corner, and he was then that snappish, and that disagreeable, I made sure he had beenhearing some
gossip about young Jack and Miss Lettie Taunton. We parted to
say short, and I'm sorry for it now ; I'm very sorry for it now."
" It might have been an awkward meeting for you, Mr. Garland," observed the lawyer.
" You mean because he had money on him, and I was hard up,
answered the farmer, frankly. " Yes, I've been a good bit roasted
about that already," he added good-humouredly. "Whenever the
young fellows are in a mind to teaze me, they say, ' Where have
you hid Redworth, Garland ? They are going to bring a fellow
down from the Bank of England to identify you,' and such like ;
but, lor, I don't heed them. They don't mean no harm. I'm sure
if I had thought of any evil coming to the old gentleman, I'd abrought him home right to his own door-that I would. The mare
would a-done it, as soon as not, and never turned a hair. "
" I quite believe it, Mr. Garland," said Mr. Smiler. "But
now, what is your notion about the matter- confidentially, between you and me what opinion have you formed on the
subject ? "
" Ihave no opinion," replied Mr. Garland, helplessly-" I am all
at sea, if you understand."
" You don't suspect anybody, then ? "
" Lor, no. Who is there to suspect ? "
" Inspector Downing says he has a clue."
" I don't believe a word of it-that is, begging your pardon,
sir-I think he has only got hold of some cat's egg."
Mr. Smiler looked at the speaker, and remarked-
" You are satisfied there is nothing in it, then ? "
" Nothing, I'd take my oath. It's a shame for Downing to think
of such a thing, and for half a pin I'd punch his head for his
pains: The lad's a wild lad, and has fallen into bad company, but
he's right enough at heart, I'd stake my life on it."
" Thank you, Mr. Garland," said the lawyer, shaking hands very
cordially with the last person who was known to have seen Mr.
Redworth alive, and he made his way back to Dorking Street, refusing all the farmer's hospitable entreaties to puta "name on something " at the bar of the " Lion and Bear," just round the corner.

CHAPTER VII.

READING THE WILL.

It was not long in oozing out that Inspector Downing had his
suspicions concerning John Redworth.
Putting two and two together, as he himself would have said,
he did not indeed feel the slightest doubt but that the young man
"knew all about it,"---knew where his father could be found,
exactly how everything happened, and why Mr. Redworth never
returned home.
For a long time previously the proceedings of the Dorking
Street Benjamin had been matters of public notoriety ; and at
Cadlebury, more especially, the company he kept, the races he
frequented, his liking for convivial entertainments, were subjects
discussed in bar parlours, amongst the loungers always meeting
and loitering upon the bridge, and talked over in second and third
class carriages by persons who knew the Redworths by sight and
reputation, and travelled constantly up and down the line.
Even to sleepy out-of-the-world Ludham, hints often came that
Mr. John Redworth was not the immaculate young man his father
believed.
" Lor ! the old fellow don't know half his time where wild Jack
really is. Some day won't there be a flare up."
It was thus the plebeian herd criticised the goings and comings,
the prospects and the probable future misfortunes of Mr. Redworth's favourite son .
" If that Taunton girl's eyes don't get him into trouble,"
remarked Mr. Purslet, " I'll eat my own words. She'll be the bone
of contention one day, contradict me who will. "
But no one did will to contradict Mr. Purslet, for everybody
who knew anything of the Tauntons, and of John Redworth's
intimacy with them, shared that gentleman's opinion.
" He'll be taken in and done for," said Mr. Purslet to Mr. Garland, on the very day when Mr. Redworth disappeared-" taken in
and done for, if no hand is stretched out to stop him. 'Tain't my
business, in course, but if I see the governor I'll give him a hint
about Master Jack's goings on."
That this hint had been given, the inspector knew.
،،
" I met him," said Mr. Purslet, in answer to a leading question,
on his way to the station. He had dined, but he was just as
usual, as calm and precise as ever, and he told me he was sauntering up to the station, where he would have more than half an hour
to wait.
" " I left The Grange,' he explained-you know his lofty indifferent sort of way, making believe he did not feel proud of having
been over at Whittelbys, and yet determined I should know he had
been-' I left The Grange too soon, as it turns out but that is

better than being too late. I cannot recollect having ever been too
late in my life, Mr. Purslet.'"
"And then you told him, I suppose," suggested the inspector.
" Then I told him. I said, ' I hope you'll excuse me, Mr. Redworth, but I really do not feel it my duty, knowing what I cannot
help knowing, to hold my tongue, and I must tell you Mr. John is
mighty intimate at Taunton Hall. '
" That was the beginning of it. Before I had half finished
telling him what a radical people considered Black Dick, and what
a beauty his sister was held to be, he turned sharp on his heel.
"" I'll settle that matter to-night,' he says. ' I'm obliged to
you, Mr. Purslet-yes, I'm truly obliged to you ; ' and then with a
little gasping choking sound, in his throat he went off."
Now the theory Downing built up for himself was this-
Having ascertained for a certainty that Squire Taunton was ten
miles off about the time Mr. Redworth must have started for the
Hall, his not improbable supposition was that the father and son
met on the road, and exchanged some high words, after which Mr.
Redworth proceeded on his way alone, till overtaken by Mr. Garland.
The inspector's presumption was that the son left the high road
in order to reach Malby, and that the pair, through some fatality,
encountered each other once again, either in the woods or in the
lonely meads it was necessary to cross before reaching the fifth-rate
station, where, according to his own account, John Redworth took
train for the Junction.
The hours, it is true, did not dovetail accurately, or indeed at
all, but Downing decided that the young man did not return home
by the time generally supposed.
" He is used to all sorts of dodges," reflected the inspector, " and
hemight even have got a lift on a stray engine or luggage train as
far as the Junction, and then he would be pretty sure to fall in
with something or somebody who would give him a seat close into
Ludham."
That the young fellow ever murdered his father in cold blood,
Downing rationally rejected as an utterly absurd idea.
"But they came to words, I am positive," he thought, walking
meditatively about Cadlebury, " and then likely to blows. The old
man could be blusterous, I'll be bound, and the whole thing
needn't have been the work of two minutes ; and as for what he did
with the body, why, there's holes enough in the old canal to bury a
troop of horse, and weeds and dirt and mud enough to keep them
down till the Judgment-day. The notes are the unlikeliest part
of the whole affair; but still in his first scare he would be pretty
sure to try to make it appear his father had been robbed as well as
murdered. Besides, he has been flush of cash ever since ; I know
that. He has been paying off heaps of small debts, and he is a
changed and altered man. All the town over there," jerking his head
in the direction of Ludham, " has noticed a difference in the chap
ever since the night his father didn't come home, and I'm not so soft

as to suppose he is breaking his heart only because the old man
is missing. I wish anybody else had been in it, that I do ; for
though he was sometimes a cheeky young hound, I don't believe he
had really any bad in him at bottom. He's worth a dozen of the
other brothers ; only to think of them offering a dirty five pounds
for information concerning the whereabouts of their own lawful
father. Blest if I should not a' felt ashamed to see the bills posted
up. Well, they won't hear much about it from me for that money."
Which would have been a veryjudicious resolution on the part
of Mr. Downing, had not other people chanced to be just as sharp,
if not sharper than he was.
Long before he began his investigations Ludham entertained its
suspicions, and every question the inspector asked only added fuel
to the fire.
It might be all very well for old ladies of both sexes to imagine
Mr. Redworth was absent of his own free choice, but the sterner
portion of the population knew better.
The old gentleman had fallen a victim to foul play of some sort,
and in the absence of any other person whom it was possible to
snspect of having had a hand in his disappearance, the wiseacres of
Ludham laid their heads together, and decided that matters looked
bad as regarded John Redworth.
Ere long they were confirmed in this opinion ; for within six
weeks of Mr. Redworth's disappearance the family in Dorking
Street received a very terrible shock, which, in due time, communicated itself to the whole population.
It came about in this wise-John Redworth wanted money-not
an uncommon want with him ; further, he said he needed it immediately.
Now the sum named, though in itself perhaps not large, sounded
enormous in the ears of his more frugal brothers.
"Why, what can you want with a hundred pounds ? " asked
Trenhill Redworth. " You have your salary, and living has never
cost you a penny, and--"
" Look here, Trenhill," interrupted the young man ; " a hundred
pounds now will be of more use to me than probably a thousand in
the future. I suppose when matters are squared up there will be
something coming to me under my father's will. Advance me what
I ask for, and deduct any sum you choose from my inheritance
hereafter, only don't torment me with questions, there's a good
fellow."
That both Gower and Trenhill Redworth were good fellows
there could be no question.
They were honest and kindly, upright, and, in some ways,
generous ; but they were prudent, and moreover human, and they
had always been a little jealous of their father's favourite, and apt
to consider themselves rather hardly done by in comparison.
As the coat of many colours stirred up the ire of Joseph's
brethren to the pitch of final exasperation, so the story told by Mr.
Garland and Mr. Blex concerning those two little properties on

" The Wastes," excited the righteous indignation of John Redworth's brothers .
"What had the lad ever done," they asked each other, " that
he should be so favoured ? wherein was he better than they, that
the old man should buy and build for him, and scarcely take so
much thought of their children as to send the future representative
of the Tooley Street Bacon Warehouse and the Bermondsey Boneboiling business a sovereign upon each respective birthday.
"Agentleman forsooth." Were they not gentlemen also. If
their father had only indulged them in the same chances of making
friends, with the same opportunities for elegant leisure, would they
not have been far finer gentlemen than this idle brother ?
They had always felt sore about the favour shown to John, and
most undoubtedly it made them sorer still to hear their father had
conceived such generous intentions towards the pair he designed
for each other.
" It was not quite fair," Trenhill said to Gower, while Gower in
reply remarked-
" It was very unfair."
"And most likely he has left him the bulk of his property,"
observed Trenhill.
" I have no doubt of it," agreed the other. Perhaps because
they felt somewhat anxious to know exactly how matters did stand
in the will, the two elder brothers had agreed that no steps should
be taken in order to prove it till the following July, unless meantime some tidings reached them concerning their father's fate.
"Everything can remain just as it is," said Gower to his sister.
"We will provide such moneys as may be required for the house
here, and John has of course his salary. I do not exactly know what
provision the law makes for such acase, but however that may be, I
shouldnot like us to appear in any unseemly haste about the matter."
"Then you have quite given up all hope of ever sceing our poor
father again ? "
"Alas, yes. It is possible hereafter some light may be thrown
upon his fate. Of course none of us can imagine for a moment, if
not dead, he would keep us in ignorance of his whereabouts."
" No, oh ! no."
"Yet still, though I feel quite satisfied he has met his end by
foul play, I for one should never agree to probate being taken out
at present."
" You are quite right, Gower ; I should not like it either."
" Because matters can, of course, go onjust as they are."
But that happened to be precisely what matters could not do.
Theoretically it may appear an easy thing to permit a man's affairs
to remain in statu quo for twelve months, but practically the
arrangement is full of difficulties.
Little obstacles were constantly presenting themselves, which,
though unimportant, required patience to overcome, and then
came the younger brother's demand for one hundred pounds, which
he entreated should at once be advanced to him.

" I assure you, Trenhill," he went on, seeing that his elder
hesitated, and looked troubled, " I would not ask for a penny if I
were not in pressing need. Let me have that sum, and I promise
I won't trouble you for another sixpence till the year is up."
" I must talk to Gower about it," said Trenhill Redworth,
gravely. "We are neither of us rich, and of course we cannot deal
in any way with our father's property till the will is proved."
" Very well then, I suppose I must go to the Jews," retorted
the other irritably. " The next thing I ask you for, Trenhill, I
know you will refuse ! "
" I don't refuse this," was the reply. " I only tell you I must
discuss your request with Gower. I will do so this evening, and
let you know to-morrow if we can anyhow arrange to let you have
what you wish."
" I thank you," said John Redworth ; but he spoke the words
ungraciously. Evidently he wanted one hundred pounds there and
then. "As if," explained the elder brother, when speaking about
the interview, " money were kept in tap, and to be had by running
for it round the corner."
" We shall have a lot of trouble with him, I foresee that,"
observed Mr. Gower Redworth, oracularly.
" If we knew how much money he is to have, it would simplify
matters a good deal."
" That is precisely what we ought to know," said Gower, " and
I will go to Smiler and explain our difficulty to him."
The result of all of which was that Mr. Smiler said he would
fix an early day for running down to Ludham and reading the will.
" Or perhaps," amended that gentleman, who possibly did not
seehis way to making a sufficientlygood thing out of anotherjourney
to Dorking Street, " you could bring your sister up here to-morrow,
and then the affair might be got over without further delay."
" I think, Miss Redworth, sa
said the lawyer next morning, when,
dressed in deep mourning, she, accompanied by her brothers,
attended at Lincoln's Inn to hear how Mr. Redworth had left his
property, " you told me you did look over your father's papers
some time since ? "
"Directly we began to fear there was something wrong, I
opened his desk, in the hope of finding some clue-some--"
" Exactly so ; I understand," finished Mr. Smiler briskly, " and
indoing so you discovered, I believe, no trace of a will, or anything
of that sort ? "
"None."
" We may take it, I imagine, for granted, that there was no
such thing, because, although the will I hold in my hand was made
some few years since, the very arrangements we have been given to
understand Mr. Redworth intended to carry out, were in accordance with the wishes expressed in this paper. As his property
increased and his investments were at once so judicious and so
fortunate that it did increase greatly-Mr. Redworth was in the
habit of altering his will in accordance with the change in his
DVOCATE
<LI
B RA
EDINBURRG
Y
Y

circumstances, and with one exception, which you shall presently
hear, every legacy was in each will substantially the same, except
in amount ; that is to say, he did not change his intentions with
regard to the disposal of his money-he merely varied or enlarged
the various gifts. This will was drawn up immediately after the
decease of his old friend Mr. Jace, who died intestate, and the bulk
of whose property went consequently to the son who, if his father
had left a will, would certainly not have inherited it."
" I remember my father speaking about that," commented
Gower.
" That fact produced a great impression upon Mr. Redworth.
He did speak about the matter, and said how grieved poor Jace
would be if he could know Willoughby had come in for the freeholds. He said it behoved every man to arrange his affairs before
his death, so that there could be no frustrating his intentions afterwards, and, in short, he gave me his instructions and executed this
will, which I think there can be no doubt is the last, and which, if
you please, I will now read to you."
Miss Redworth and her two eldest brothers simply inclined their
heads in answer to Mr. Smiler's final statement. John Redworth
took no notice of the lawyer's remark, but with his eyes devoured
the paper as if he would fain have grasped its contents without
tarrying for Mr. Smiler's slow utterance of them.
Mr. Smiler unfolded the will, softly smoothed out the folds with
his plump right hand, cleared his throat, and began.
The faces of the three elder Redworths were gravely expectant
-interested, as was natural, but not unduly so. That of the
youngest, however, wore a look of eager and undisguised anxiety.
Mr. Smiler, glancing at him as he went on, wondered, but outwardly took no notice. Something was coming which he suspected
would try the equanimity of the four.
Stripped of legal verbiage, the provisions of the will flowed on
smoothly enough. The aforesaids and whereases, the herebys and
the hereinbefore-mentioneds, delayed the course of the reading a
little, but did not alter the fairness of the disposition.
The whole of the property of which Mr. Redworth died possessed was to be sold, and dealt with as follows :
Four thousand pounds to his dear son Gower, four thousand
pounds to his dear son Trenhill, four thousand pounds to his
beloved daughter Amelia, free from the control of any husband she
might marry. In the event of her dying unmarried, or without
children, such sum of four thousand pounds was to be divided
between her brothers Gower and Trenhill, their heirs, executors,
and so forth.
At this point Mr. Smiler paused and took a pinch of snuff.
" I am one of the few men now extant," he was wont to say,
" who still take snuff."
Gower and Trenhill drew a breath relieved. After all, he had
not left everything to Benjamin, as they once feared he might. It
was not a wholly unfair will-on the contrary.

But John Redworth's face never changed its expression of
intense enquiry-never relaxed its look of eager anxiety.
Once again Mr. Smiler glanced at him, and then proceeded :
" The residue of my property (after the payment of the aforesaid legacies, one hundred pounds to each of my executors, fifty
pounds to the poor of the parish of Ludham, and a like sum to the
Dispensary at Cadlebury), I leave to my youngest son, John Morrison Redworth, subject to no condition whatever, save and except
that within twelve calendar months from the date of my death, he
shall marry my much loved and highly esteemed niece, Hilda
Susannah Gower--"
Mr. Smiler stopped suddenly, and looked up. " You spoke, I
think," he said, addressing John Redworth, and his two brothers
and his sister turned towards him as if in confirmation of the
lawyer's words.
" No, I didn't speak," he answered. "Go on."
" And in the event of the said John Morrison refusing to marry
his said cousin, or of his dying before such marriage can be solemnized, it is my will that the whole of my property, always excepting such portion as is devoted to paying the legacies hereinbefore
mentioned, shall be employed in building and endowing almshouses
for twelve widows, to be called ' The Redworth Charity.' And
that I may not embarrass my will with the details of a project
only to be carried out in the event of a contingency which I trust
may never arise, I leave the plans, specifications, and all other
particulars necessary for the purpose named, in a separate form for
the guidance of my executors .
"On the other hand, should the said Hilda Susannah Gower
refuse to marry her said cousin, or die before the marriage, a
legacy similar in amount to that left to his brothers-namely, four
thousand pounds-is to be paid to the said John Morrison Redworth,
and the residue of my property is to be devoted to the purposes
before mentioned, the number of almshouses to be reduced to six."
Then followed some directions about the testator's funeral, the
names of the executors, a desire strongly expressed that Mr.
Smiler, who was one of the executors, should conduct all the legal
business connected with the estates, a couple of codicils relating to
matters of no general interest, and the will ended.
Mr. Smiler laid his hand upon it tenderly, and looked at John
Redworth, on whom also the eyes of his sister and brothers were
fastened curiously.
For a moment there was a dead silence. Not one of those
present uttered a word.
Then John Redworth rose and walked across to the window,
and, with his hands thrust into his pockets, stood there with his
back to the company.
All at once he said hoarsely, and without turning his head
towards the person he addressed-
" You may give out the contract for those almshouses at once,
Mr. Smiler. I shall never come to you for any of that money."

"Now, now, now," began the lawyer.
" You have a year, at any rate, inwhich to consider the matter,"
said Trenhill Redworth .
"Your father always intended you to marry Hilda, so it is mere
affectation pretending that this takes you by surprise," remarked
Gower.
" That is true enough ; but I did think he would have left me
something-say a five-pound-note, for instance with no condition
hanging to it."
" But, John, you like Hilda, don't you ? " here interrupted his
sister, crossing to where he stood, and laying a persuasive hand on
his arm.
" Like her ? Of course I like her. Why shouldn't I ? "
" That is just what I say."
"But my liking or disliking her has nothing to do with the
matter," he persisted.
" It has everything to do with it," pleaded his sister. “ If
you like her you will marry her, and get all this money."
" I shall never marry Hilda Gower."
" And why not, in Heaven's name ? " asked Trenhill Redworth,
surprised out of the usual calm gravity which characterized his
demeanour.
"For a very sufficient reason."
"Surely you can tell us what that reason is."
" Certainly," and he turned his back to the window and faced
them all as he spoke-" it is a very simple one. I shall not marry
Hilda Gower, because Iam married already."
" To Miss Taunton ? " said Mr. Smiler, interrogatively.
" To Lettie Taunton," answered the young man. And having
thus satisfied the curiosity of his family, John Redworth went out
ofthe office, and shut the door after him .

CHAPTER VIII .

MISS GOWER'S NIGHT VIGIL.

WHEN Miss Redworth returned to Ludham, which she did by
a train arriving at that town about seven o'clook, she went straight
up to her bedroom. Terrible as the mystery of her father's disappearance had been, this certainty of her brother's marriage was
worse. It involved so many questions, it created such a tangle of
mental and family difficulty, it was likely to cause such a division
of interests, that the poor lady felt disheartened. To her, as to her
father, John had been an idol, and it was hard not merely to feel
every hope cherished about him was destroyed, but that another
trouble might be connected with his most unhappy choice, the
length and depth of which no one belonging to John Redworth had
courage to contemplate.
In ten minutes after her return, Miss Gower was in possession

of the story. In broken sentences, interrupted by many sobs, Miss
Redworth told her dear friend what had happened.
When she had quite finished, Miss Gower made no comment on
the news. What she said was-
" Now, Amy, I will fetch you a cup of tea, and you must try to
keep quiet. All this has been too much for you."
Then, when her cousin, thoroughly worn out, had fallen into an
uneasy slumber, she stole away down the stairs, and wandered
about the lonely house, which seemed so silent and so desolate, that
the dead might have come and taken possession of it.
She could not rest. She felt as if she never should wish to
sleep again.
Every hope, and plan, and wish of her life had been bound up
in John Redworth ; and now she was told the man she loved-the
man she expected to marry-was the husband of another woman.
" How shall I bear-how shall I bear it ? " she moaned, as she
paced the drawing-room, to-and-fro, to-and-fro. The servants
were gone to bed. She was the only person stirring in the house ;
but still she kept treading the carpet with impatient feet, battling
with her misery all alone.
She scarce knew what she was doing. As she thought she
tore her handkerchief into shreds. It was a dainty trifle ; one she
had embroidered for herself. But next morning she found it in
her pocket rent to tatters-torn asunder almost thread by thread,
and the lace, which had been old and beautiful, a mere ball ofrags.
" I must have taken the news very badly," she said to herself,
with a bitter smile. " Worse than I thought I did. Lucky I was
quite alone."
She remembered somewhat of her agony-remembered drawing up the blind and looking out into the quiet street, longing to
rush away and walk for miles and miles through the silent country.
She recollected a mad desire to go down to the river and dip her
head in the cool water. She knew she had imagined, if she
could find rest anywhere, it would be in a particular little dell,
shaded by great elm trees, where, in the spring-time, grew early
primroses and scented violets.
If she had yielded to the wild impulse which seemed to urge
her out, she would have rushed away into the night and wandered.
through the fields and beside the murmuring streams, till fatigue
overcame her.
" I was mad," she said, recalling these things, and then she
repeated her former thanksgiving with a difference. " How fortunate there was no one to see me."
Long after midnight, when she was toiling with weary limbs
up to her own room, she heard Miss Redworth calling her name
faintly.
"Do you want me, Amy ? " she asked, pushing open the door
she had purposely left ajar.
" Dear Hilda, I thought I should never make you hear," was
the answer. " Should you mind sleeping here for the remainder of

the night ? I am so frightened ; I feel so nervous, you cannot
think. I have that old fancy about there being some one moving
in papa's room ; did you hear that noise ? as if the drawers were
being opened and closed. I never can continue to live in this
house. I must tell Trenhill so to-morrow."
" It is all fancy, dear," said Miss Gower ; " there is no one in
that room ; to satisfy you and myself too, I will look into it, and
come back to you in a minute."
And so saying, Miss Gower slipped into her own apartment,
undressed hurriedly, put on a wrapper over her night-gown, thrust
her feet into a pair of slippers, and then crossed the passage and
opened the door of that room, which, living or dead, Mr. Redworth
was never to re-enter.
The moon had risen, and each object that apartment contained
was clearly visible in the bright light which flooded every corner.
There was the plain iron bedstead, with its snowy hangings and
its smoothly-spread counterpane. There were ranged the boots
the man would never require more between the windows stood a
bureau his hand should not again unlock-beside the bed was a
chest of drawers, where his linen still lay ready for use. In the
looking-glass Miss Gower caught a reflection of her own pale face,
and for a moment shrunk back scared. In its loneliness and silence
the room was terribly suggestive of the unsolved mystery ; it would
scarcely have seemed so dreadful had a corpse been lying in it, as
it did with that aspect of waiting, in the trim orderliness of its
arrangement. Everything there was ready for the coming of the
man who had never returned home.
As the apartment looked on the evening he was expected back
so it looked then.
No one had cared to change the order of the furniture, or to
remove any of Mr. Redworth's belongings.
" Where is he ? " each separate article seemed to say to the
woman who looked around. " Is he in some depth of that long
lonely canal-in some sedge-covered bay,half weed, half slime, beside
that weird sheet of water bordered by a vegetation which is almost
tropical in its rank luxuriance-is he lying in some ditch among
the dark woods where last autumn's leaves have drifted thick and
brown, or has he floated away through abroken lock along the river
which flows into the Thames, and will he be brought back here
some day battered and disfigured, recognizable only by such of his
garments as the wash and the drift of the water have spared."
Shivering, Miss Gower retreated from the room and closed the
door. As she did so it seemed to her excited fancy that she heard
a sound in the deserted chamber, something which was neither sob,
nor moan, and yet was like a low wail of pain and sorrow.
She would have opened the door again, but her courage failed
her. Overwrought, she stepped swiftly back into her cousin's
room, and after shooting the bolts and turning the key, nestled
down into the bed beside her.
But not to sleep. No-till after the servants had gone down-

" In the looking-glass Miss Gower caught a reflection of her own pale face, and for a
moment shrunk back scared."
P. 56.

stairs, and the stir and hum of awakening life was heard in the
street, she never closed her eyes, and when at last she did fall into
an uneasy slumber, utterly worn out by mental and physical exhaustion, it was only to be suddenly awakened by a cry from Miss
Redworth, who, starting up, panted out-
" Oh ! Hilda, I have had such an awful dream ; such a horrible,
horrible dream ! I thought I was in a darksome cavern, the walls
of which were dripping with water, and the floor with slime. There
were dreadful creatures crawling about and sticking to the roof,
and as I slipped, and put up my hand to save myself from falling,
I touched filthy things that were cold and noisome. And at one
end of this place, so far from me, that for a time I could scarce
discern his features, I saw my father. He seemed struggling to
rise, and stretched one arm out so imploringly, and turned such a
beseeching face towards me, that I tried to rise and help him. But
as I ran I stumbled and fell. I strove to save myself, and doing so
touched some slimy animal that dropped from the roof to the ground.
And then I woke, Hilda-I woke -but it all seems to me real even
now."
-

CHAPTER IX .
MISS GOWER DISAPPOINTS HER RELATIVES .

TIME went on, but Scotland Yard, and Mr. Downing, and the
Ludham gossips made little progress in unravelling the mystery
of Mr. Redworth's disappearance. The body was not found-no
clue could be discovered to the identity of the person who changed
the notes. Ludham could not fasten the crime of parricide upon
John Redworth, although it felt no manner of doubt that he had
killed his father ; and it is quite certain that even the young man's
brothers believed him guilty.
At heart they were loyal and affectionate, however, and even
when they felt most satisfied of his sin, they agreed to try and step
between him and its consequences. They entertained no Spartan
ideas of justice. He was of their blood, and they decided to do all
men could to save him from the consequences of his crime.
Upon them there settled a sorrowful gravity, which in a few
weeks aged them more than years, whilst Miss Redworth grew
old and worn under the incubus of her apprehensions and her
memories. She could not forget her brother's manner on the
night when she and Miss Gower waited and watched for the return
ofthe missing man. She recollected the jingle of those sovereigns,
the sleeve soaked with water, the unwonted hour at which he had
risen next morning ; and her heart grew sick and faint as she
thought all things seemed against him, that he was guilty, and that
he alone understood the mystery of his father's fate.
Through all, however, Miss Gower remained apparently steadfast to her cousin. Whether she believed him innocent, is open to
doubt, but it is certain she maintained his cause.

To her very soul she felt the bitterness of his desertion; but
she did not mean to let the world-her world-guess the length
and depth of her despair.
When Miss Redworth elected to go to London, Miss Gower determined to remain in the neighbourhood of Ludham. She was free to
choose her own path in life, and she decided upon following an extremely independent course. Her money, which Mr. Redworth had
managed for her, and managed judiciously, could now, she felt, be
expended in a manner likely to attract attention, and secure her a
marked position in Ludham. There was no reason why she should
not start as a lady of landed property on her own account. Mr.
Redworth's programme could be carried out, minus the husband.
Practically, what she proposed to herself was to do what nobody
else seemed disposed to attempt.
" I will take John's part against every one. I will visit his
wife. I will make myself a person of importance in the neighbourhood ; and, for the rest, my day will come. All things are possible
to him who can wait. I can wait. There is some secret about
this marriage which I have to discover. John is not a happy
husband, and it shall not be my fault if she is a happy wife."
Just as methodically as she might have traced a pattern out on
muslin, Miss Gower arranged her plans for the discomfiture of
Mrs. John Redworth .
" I daresay she is pretty," said Miss Gower, looking, the while,
at her own rejected face in the glass. " I have no doubt, indeed,
she is ; but, before we are any of us much older, he will wish he
had never seen her. I don't believe a man reared as he has been
will be able to endure the social ostracism his connection with the
Taunton Hall people must involve. But we shall see." And
forthwith she stepped boldly into the breach which had opened
between the bridegroom and his family, wrote a friendly letter to
Mrs. John, and a congratulatory one to Mr. John; and, in fact,
achieved an amount of politeness which poor Miss Redworth could
not have compassed had any one offered her a thousand a year
for doing so.
And Miss Gower had her reward. From Paris, where the
married couple were gone, after some little delay she received a
few gracefully-worded lines of affectionate thanks from Mrs. John
Redworth, and a most grateful epistle from John.
" I shall never forget your kindness, Hilda," he wrote. "It
was like water in the desert ; and certainly, if any one might have
been supposed to possess a right to feel aggrieved at my conduct,
you were that person. My dear cousin, highly as I have always
esteemed you, Inever thought so much of you as I do now." And,
after much more to the same effect, he ended by signing himself,
" Yours affectionately, J. R."
With a certain set grimness of aspect, Miss Gower folded up
this letter, after she had read it twice over, and put it carefully aside.
"Ah! my dear cousin," she mentally exclaimed, " the plot
is thickening. I have a great deal still to learn about you and

your beautiful wife. This letter is dated from Paris ; but if you
only knew I had seen you in Bloomsbury, the other evening, you
might not feel quite so easy in your mind. What on earth could
you be doing in Bloomsbury, when we all supposed you on the
other side of the Channel ? "
Inspector Downing could have told her, had she propounded
the enquiry to him, for he, too, beheld the young man entering a
lodging-house situated in one of those quiet streets that abound in
the neighbourhood of Russell and Brunswick Squares.
The inspector, or one of his satellites, had never lost sight of
John Redworth since the night after his father disappeared, and
there could be no doubt but that, putting two and two together,
the inspector understood the Bloomsbury lodging-house contained
another strong motive for getting rid of Mr. Redworth.
That the young man had made away with the old man, Mr.
Downing entertained no manner of doubt, and yet he could not fix
the crime upon him. Not merely was he unable to trace any one
who had seen John Redworth returning home on that particular
night in a suspicious and clandestine manner, but he had found
several persons who could speak to the fact of having noticed him
in the train which reached Ludham a little after nine o'clock.
In a word, at the time when Mr. Redworth was stated to have
been at Saul's Corner, his son was seen at Ludham, which, of course,
rendered it exceedingly difficult to connect him with the mystery.
The inspector never doubted his guilt, and, for that matter,
Ludham also was quite satisfied young Redworth knew perfectly
well what had become of his father. But still, the evidence
necessary to secure a conviction had not been obtained, and Mr.
Downing went about in a dissatisfied manner, looking at the bills
placarding the neighbourhood, which bills offered at last two
hundred and fifty pounds for such information, et cetera, et cetera,
the reward promised by the Redworth family being supplemented
by another hundred from Government.
It would be too much to say that the course of conduct Miss
Gower elected to pursue met with any violent expressions of
disapproval from her relatives ; but Miss Redworth did admit
that Hilda had disappointed them.
For ayoung woman to desert her familyat such a crisis-to reject
the shelter of respectable and well-ordered homes-to set herself
up, as it were, above the Redworths, and refuse to be guided,
as concerned her pecuniary affairs, by the advice of men who were
up in all city matters, seemed to her cousins a very sad thing.
But what appeared sadder than all, was her selecting Mr.
Garland's as a fit and proper house in which to take up her
residence. " A vulgar, drunken old gossip," said Miss Redworth
to Miss Gower, summing him up.
" Yes, dear, but he believes in John, and he has a nice motherly
wife, and the air up on The Wastes is crisp and invigorating ;
and I think London would kill me-and, in short, Imean to remain
with the Garlands for the present."

60 The Disappearance ofMr. Jeremiah Redworth.
" I don't fancy she can be quite in her right senses," observed
Gower Redworth, seeking about for an explanation of her conduct.
" We know she was very fond of John, and I daresay the disappointment has turned her head a little. All the same, however,
Ido not think she ought to set our wishes so totally at defiance."
" It is a queer start," thought Inspector Downing. " If she had
been his sister I could have understood it, but, as matters are, I
confess I do not comprehend the meaning of this move. I'll
know all about it some day, however, or my name is not Thomas
Downing."
Wherein Mr. Downing chanced to be wrong. He never understood Miss Gower's little move, and his name remained Thomas
Downing, as it had ever been.
There is nothing so hard to understand as the secret of a
woman's actions, when they are prompted solely by pique. Whilst
the inspector was puzzling himself over Miss Gower's motives, she
felt all she then wanted was-if John Redworth were happy, to
make him unhappy ; if he were unhappy, to behold the misery
himself had wrought.
She wanted to see him sorry, regretful, repentant. She desired
to watch him tire of his wife's beauty, and contrast the life he
might have led with her, Hilda Gower-the life of competence,
respectability, peace, comfort-with the poverty-stricken, disreputable existence he must drag on at Taunton Hall.
For she knew he was coming to live with his wife and brotherin-law, at the old house on the road to Cadlebury ; and, from the
hints thrown out by Mr. Downing, and the chatter of Mr. Garland,
she understood what a prolonged residence there was likely to prove.
" Mr. Garland," she said one morning, in the fine September
weather. " If you are going to Malby this afternoon, I wish you
could take me with you as far as Trotterbeck. I can easily walk
from there over to Taunton Hall. I want to enquire when my
cousin and his wife really are expected back."
" You know the Squire ain't at the Hall, miss ? "
" It is not the Squire I wish to see, just at present," answered
Miss Gower. She was quite at home by this time with the Garland
family, and found the homage and respect they paid her peculiarly
gratifying. She had her own rooms, and was waited upon as she
had never been waited on in Dorking Street ; " though I confess I
have a curiosity to see both brother and sister ; all I desire to-day
is to learn for certain when my cousin means to return. I am afraid,
very much afraid, Mr. Garland, his prolonged absence is doing him
harm amongst his friends here. "
" I don't think there is much in that," observed Mr. Garland,
bluntly. " In my poor opinion, except you and me, and may be
jest one and another here and there, the poor fellow hasn't a friend
left in Ludham. He might have lived down the notion of being
concerned in that unfortunate business, but he will never live down
his marriage with Miss Taunton. It was the worst day's work
he ever took in hand, and so, I am afraid, he will find it."

" She is very beautiful, though, Mr. Garland, you say ? "
"Very beautiful; but lor ! what is beauty, when a man comes
to have to look at it week in, week out, for the remainder of his
life ? "
" I should say it is a great deal," remarked Miss Gower,
plucking a sprig of sweet-briar, and inhaling its peculiar perfume
as she spoke. " But you have not answered my question yet-
Will you take me as far as Trotterbeck ? ”
" I'll take you to any place you like, miss. As I have told you
before, there's me, and there's the mare, and we are both always at
your service, day or night. The mare won't tire, and I am sure I
won't. But, as for dropping you at Trotterback, I can't hear of such
a thing. We will go by Saul's Wood Corner, and, if you like, you
canwalk from there up to the Hall-that is not far, and ifyou choose
to stroll about the Heath or the Canal for an hour or so, why, I will
call for you at the Hall on my way back from Malby. There are
some good gardens and shady walks at the Hall, only the whole
place has been let to run wild. I used to go bird's-nesting there
when I was a lad. It is a pity to see a property like it running to
seed, as one may say. It might just as well be in Chancery. If it
were mine, I would dig up that old Squire, will or no will, and
bury him where all decent men ought to be buried in the parish
churchyard. I should not like to lie in bed o' nights and think of
himbeing outside
"His was the window
a strange just at my elbow,
fancy, certainly," as itMiss
remarked were."
Gower.
" Yes, and if you notice, strange fancies are mostly at the
beginning of every evil that happens in a family," said Mr. Garland, sententiously. " When folks commence being odd, they
generally end by being beggars-that is what I have observed.
Living up here on these Wastes, I can look down upon a vast
of places that have changed hands, even within my memory,
and nine times out of ten the trouble came through somebody
who was different from his neighbours. Look at the Tauntons,
for example. Ne'er one of them like anybody else, and going on
each heir worse than the man that went before him."
" Till the evil culminated in the present squire," finished Miss
Gower.
" You are right, there. But he never had much chance," said
Mr. Garland, charitably; for all at once he remembered the Tauntons were now allied to the Redworths, and, in consequence, after
a fashion, connected with the lady he addressed.

CHAPTER X.

TAUNTON HALL .

ABOUT a mile from Saul's Corner, on the main road from Ludham to
Cadlebury, there stands, fronting Wilderness Heath, a large redbrick mansion.

It lies well back from the highway, and is screened from the
impertinent observation of passing travellers by high walls and a
double line of fine old elms .
Aplace, once upon a time, of considerable pretension-a place
which might, even in the time of the Black Squire, have been rendered fit for the habitation of any nobleman or gentleman. But it
owned an evil reputation.
Ever since the period when the long avenue, leading right away
from the house to Saul's Corner in one direction, and to Wilderness
Heath on the other, was converted into a public road, Taunton
Hall, shorn of its wild moorland avenue, and of its splendid
approaches, shared the fate of human beings who go down in the
world.
The high wall, reared by the occupier to shield his mansion
from the gaze of the vulgar, at once assumed, to the rural mind,
an air of sullen mystery. Had the then Squire Taunton been
disposed so to humour the popular fancy as to allow his few neighbours to look through iron gates at the lawns and gardens his
walls enclosed, people might have been satisfied; buthe did nothing
of the sort. Between himself, his grand cedar trees, his parterres,
his smooth grass plots, his rare shrubs and beautiful flowers, and
the prying herd, he interposed not merely high walls, but heavy
wooden doors ; and so still, so grim, so utterly silent the place
always looked, that ere long the people said the Squire was out of
his mind, and then, improving upon that idea, that the place was
haunted.
Stories were told of some great and purely imaginary crime
which had been committed within the Hall. On special nights in
the year, it was said, a figure dressed all in black would dart out
on anypasser-by, and keep beside him for a mile or more, no matter
how fast he ran. When Squire Taunton died-the Squire who
sold the best part of his patrimony and built the walls-his widow
at once went abroad, to " foreign parts," and the house was
shut up till, the young heir dying, a distant relative succeeded to
the property.
For generations after that, Taunton Hall never descended from
father to son, and it was the popular belief that Taunton Hall
never would so descend again.
" There is a curse upon the house and upon the owners," said
those best informed about the matter. "Some day there will be
no owner for the Hall, and then it will be pulled down, and a good
riddance, too."
Originally the Taunton quivers must have held an extraordinary
number of male arrows, for thus far, spite of the singular fact
concerning the descent, or rather non-descent, from father to son,
the Hall had never lacked an heir when the latest owner died .
As a rule, however, the owners did not much affect the place.
Most of them had estates elsewhere, or houses in London, or palaces
in " foreign parts." So long as they retained sufficient of their
ancient prestige to marry heiresses, or to obtain good posts under

Government, no Taunton really resided at the Hall, which gradually
went, not exactly to wreck and ruin, but was left to repair and em.
bellish itself, as, by the aid of climbing ivy, of twining parasites, and
wildly-spreading rose-trees, it managed to do not unsuccessfully.
Back to the Hall at length there came a certain Marmaduke
Taunton, who, having in his mad youth inherited and scorned the
place, returned to it in his sorrowful old age.
Haunted, then, the Hall was, no doubt, by memories of evil
deeds, of sins that had sorrowfully come home at the nightfall, of
hopes which had borne no fruit, of resolves abandoned almost as soon
as formed. Weary, worn, disappointed, disenchanted, disillusioned,
of all the bright dreams of his reckless manhood, the old Squire came
back, in the decline of his godless life, to bemoan his fate, and to
say, with the wise foolish king, " All is vanity."
He resided at the Hall for years, living the life of a hermit,
varying the routine of his existence only by a rare drive into
Cadlebury, or a rarer journey to London, seeing no one, save, at
distant intervals, his lawyer, who was also his agent ; yet keeping
up some remnant of his ancient state, being served and waited
upon with all due ceremony, by aged domestics who were almost
as recluse in their habits and reserved in their manners as the
Squire himself.
After about twenty years of this secluded life, Mr. Taunton
died, and in dying dealt the last blow to all hope of rehabilitating
the Hall.
It was not in his power to deal with the estate, which, after
being docked of its magnificent avenues, was strictly entailed, but
he possessed a considerable personalty, and this he left to the next
heir, upon condition that he, the testator, was buried in a mausoleum he had erected in the garden, without any ceremony of consecration or Christian rites being performed over his remains.
It was supposed and hoped that the new squire would either
reject the legacy, and so get rid of the conditions imposed, or else
find some legal loophole through which he might creep ; but
he accepted the burden laid upon him with the most perfect
equanimity.
So long as " Old Marmydeuk "-it was thus he pronounced the
name of his predecessor--" so long as Old Marmydeuk did not
come to life again, he was welcome to rest in the garden, or anywhere else about the premises.
" I'd take a parish full o' corpses on the same terms," further
explained Mr. Taunton ; and thus, to the scandal of all the country
side, the old squire was planted out amongst his shrubs and
flowers, and the new squire took possession of the Hall, shut up
all the best rooms, barred the hall door, and set up his household
gods in the kitchen.
There, in the evenings, he smoked his pipe and drank his beer,
regardless of all the proprieties. He had come from the plough,
and Taunton Hall, and the atmosphere of drawing-rooms, would
have suffocated him. He said quite frankly that he could not

a-bear fine gentlemen, adding, not very chivalrously, that " fine
ladies sickened him."
He rose at four, and went to bed at eight. He liked fat bacon,
and loved the odour of a farm-yard. He had never been fond of
society, and for that reason, certainly not from any apprehension of
overstepping the conventionalities, did not frequent public-houses,
or ask any neighbour to drop in and smoke and drink beer with him.
Week in, week out, he stood over his labourers in the fields, sometimes working as hard with them as though his living depended
upon his exertions. A bear in his manners, an animal in his
habits, in every respect a contrast to the refined cynic who lay
quite quietly under the rustling trees, and never rose from his
grave evenwhen his successor filled the great hall with wheat, and
set his men to churn in the dining-room, under the very eyes of his
ancestors, male and female, who, wigged, powdered, patched, laced,
furbelowed, and clad in armour, frowned or simpered, or stared
stolidly from the walls.
He had vegetated in this manner for about ten years, knowing
no variety in his life save that which was wrought by the advent
of seedtime and harvest, the snows of winter and the drought of
summer, when he met with a terrible accident.
While helping to build a rick, he overbalanced himself, and falling
to the ground broke his thigh, also having the disaster to encounter
in his descent the prongs of a pitchfork, which entered his side.
All that skill could do for him was done. The doctors saved
his life, and patched him up as well as they were able, but the accident left him a cripple, and a peevish invalid to boot. Walking
became a pain and a weariness. It was only slowly and with
difficulty he could drag himself into the more distant fields. Every
change of weather affected his health, and consequently his spirits
and his temper. The house, as he said, with a certain unconscious
pathos, " seemed like a prison to him," and the only thing he appeared really to enjoy was sitting on a low broken wall down by
the deserted canal, watching the sluggish waters flowing slowly by,
and looking at the fish swimming about in shoals, or making widening circles as they rose to the surface after flies .
What he thought about, or whether he thought of anything,
no one ever knew, but there was something so sad and solitary
about the appearance of the owner of Taunton Hall, as with
sunken eyes he looked across the canal at the woods beyond, or let
his glance wander over the giant rushes and the great masses of
floating weeds, that most of the few men who passed by on the
narrow watery highway stopped to exchange a greeting with him,
sometimes bringing him news from the outer world, and frequently
praying his acceptance of fish caught in the deeper and darker water
further down, where the pine plantation stretched to the brink of
the canal, and the alder-trees grew thick beside the woodland paths,
leading off, then
one toMrs.
Saul's Corner, and the other to Wilderness Heath.
Taunton's brother chanced to be asked to
It was
assist in managing the estate. The son of a village innkeeper-a

CHARIS
TON

" And set his men to churn in the dining-room, under the very eyes of his ancestors,
male andfemale."
P. 64.

man who had tried innkeeping, and various other ways of living,
with an almost equal amount of non-success, it was quite in the
ordinary course of events he should think himself competent to
look after his brother-in-law's affairs .
As a first step, he began to breed cattle; and when he failed in
that endeavour he tried his hand at growing flax. The latter
attempt resulting in a loss, he next turned his attention to a more
congenial occupation that of dealing in horses-and making
one lucky hit, he set that against years of misfortune, and season
after season destitute of profit, and would suffer no one to have
the best of the argument concerning his system of management.
It was this brother who insisted that his nephew and niece should
be sent to school .
" Taking what his father was left, and the money I shall make for
him," said that worthy, " Dick will one day have a fine fortune. It
is time he was being educated and taughtto behave like a gentleman."
As for his niece, in his opinion there was no position to which
she might not aspire.
" With her good looks, and a handsome dot, she ought to
marry a duke," he was wont to remark, pushing back an old sun
bonnet off the girl's face. " You must not run about like a wild
colt any longer, Lettie. What a gipsy it is. Ay, I warrant me
you and your brother are true Tauntons-true chips of the old
block. Any one may see it who is not stone blind, and likes to
compare you with those old dead-and-gones hanging in the house
there. Be a good girl, and give your mind to your book. Learn
how to parlez vous ; don't let crotchets and quavers daunt you, and
some day you'll see what you shall see, and then, may be, when
I am inmy grave you'll remember what your poor old uncle prophesied about you."
And, accordingly, to school the boy and girl were sent. As a
matter of form, the Squire's opinion had been requested on the
subject, but he declined to give it.
" Do as you like," he exclaimed, idly picking blades of grass as
he spoke, and pitching them into the water. " I'm of no account-
I am nowt and I am nobody now. Give them learning, an' ye
please, but if learning do no more for them nor this fine place has
done for me, then don't come and say it's my fault. We was all
better and happier, I'm thinking, in the farm I'll never see more,
than we've ever been at Taunton Hall. "
Before his children had, to use his own expression, " got much
learning " at the very third-rate school where they were being educated, Mr. Taunton died. He was not buried in the mausoleum with
old Marmaduke, but carried down the back staircase he had elected
to use in life, through the kitchen hall, across the farmyard, and
out by the stable entrance to Cadlebury, where the service was read
over his remains in orthodox form, and all the rites of the Church
were complied with by his relatives on behalf of this English Heathen .
For years he had been a cipher in his own house, regarded by
no member of the establishment, and interfering with nothing that

was done. Nevertheless, it is possible his death proved a relief
to wife and brother-in-law.
Whether looking gloomily into the canal, or nestling in the
chimney corner, he had seemed a very skeleton at the feast of life
to those still strong enough and hearty enough to enjoy the good
things placed before them.
Thus at length the spell was broken, for Richard Taunton did
succeed to his father's property ; but ifpeople had shaken their heads
wisely before, they shook them still more wisely now.
There were evil days in store for Taunton Hall, so declared the
oldest inhabitants. There would be wild doings when the young
man came into his own. He had never been trained to manage a
property. His one idea with regard to money was to spend it. He
had every trait of the maddest and most thoughtless ofthe worst ofthe
Tauntons, without one of their redeeming qualities ; whilst as for the
girl, she was handsome enough in all conscience, but would come to
no good either. So prophesied the croakers and scandal-mongers ;
whilst more charitable folks trusted the brother and sister might
meet with some friend who would advise them for their good, and
neutralize the evil influence of their silly vulgar mother, and harum
scarum, speculative, dissipated uncle.
Much company of a somewhat indifferent sort came to the Hall
inthosedays.
Gentlemen who talked loudly about race-horses-ladies who
dressed mighty fine and who drank a considerable amount of champagne,made up a societywhich Mrs. Taunton and her brother thought
very desirable and fashionable indeed. The old place opened its doors
most hospitably at that period ; the back entrance, through which
the late Squire had been borne to his rest, was now only used by
the servants of the house, and the grooms and tigers, and valets and
maids, of the grand folks who came driving their four-in-hands,
their pairs of " slashing " bays, their horn-announced tandems, and
their fast-trotting nags.
For these great personages the once jealously-closed gates now
stood hospitably open. Quite in style the equipages whirled round
the short carriage sweep to the hall-door, the moss was scraped off
the drive-the grass on the lawns was mown-the roses were cut
in-the weeds were hacked down the handsomest living rooms
were swept and garnished, and the " best that could be bought in
London," as Mrs. Taunton's brother was wont to aver, procured in
the way of eating and drinking.
Once a real lord spent a night at Taunton Hall, and the wife, or
rather a lady who had been the wife of a certain nobleman, but who
was divorced from him by no wish of her own, spent three days
with Mrs. Taunton ; and when at eighteen Richard Taunton insisted
upon leaving the halls of learning, where he had spent three weary
years, and returning home, he found himself the object of much
interest to many very distinguished persons, several of whom, in the
most amiable manner, promised to take him by the hand and show
him life.

During the course of the next six years the young Squire may
indeed be said to have seen every sort of life, save that which
was reputable ; but at the end of that time he appeared suddenly
one day at the Hall, there and then turned his uncle out of doors,
'
dismissed every servant, save an old woman who had in succession
nursed him and his sister, and without the slightest break in the
process, relapsed into barbarism.
The primitive life lived by his father when he first succeeded to
the property, had at least one element of safety-the man worked.
His son, on the contrary, did not work. He led the life of a savage
in the worst sense.
Quick and clever, he had learned enough to know better, to
understand as his father had never done, that the mere fact of
possessing property involves duties, of which the man who owns
nothing is free.
Quite voluntarily he cut himself adrift, not merely from the
companions who had exercised so disastrous an influence on his
pecuniaryprospects, but also from the slightest hope of ever taking
up a fair or decent position in life.
He had not the distaste for society which characterized his
father, but he selected for his boon companions the lowest of the
low-men who laughed at his poorest jokes and joked coarsely themselves in return-who lived like human swine, and who, even in
outward appearance, seemed to have set the opinions of the better
portion of the world as much at defiance as possible.
His mother did not long survive the changes instituted by her
son. On her death-bed she gave voice to many utterances ; but,
like most of the utterances she had made in life, they were so little
to the purpose, that her son might be excused for paying small
attention to them.
In one respect he did fulfil her wishes. She had as grand a
funeral as feathers and velvet could compass. No money was
stinted over the affair, and if very few persons " followed," that was
not the fault either of Dick or of the " baked meats " prepared for
the occasion.
Her coffin was not carried out through the back door and across
the farm-yard. No, as might have befitted one of the ancient ladies
whose portraits graced the interior of the Hall, Mrs. Taunton was
carried by way of the great staircase to the front entrance, and
thence to the hearse, which, with its attendant coaches, stood ready
awaiting her.
Through the same portals the mourners returned to the house,
and in like manner the few guests subsequently departed.
It was then Richard Taunton closed the massive oaken door,
and shot the bolts which secured it-then he raised the long disused
bar and dropped it into its place then he padlocked the chain which
for years had hung pendant, and, turning to his sister, said grimly-
" There has been no luck about the house since that door was
opened by my uncle. I have closed it now, and we shall see what
will happen before it is flung wide again."

68 The Disappearance ofMr. Jeremiah Redworth.

CHAPTER XI .

SAUL'S WOOD .

It was to this house, crossing a foot-bridge at Saul's Corner, Miss
Gower made her way.
She believed Dick Taunton to be absent from home, but if she
had not been certain of the fact, it would have made little difference
in her course of action .
There was a mystery about John Redworth, which she imagined
could be solved only at Taunton Hall, and as she meant to devote
herself to unravelling that mystery, she had no intention of suffering
such a trifle as the presence or absence of the master of the house
to interfere with her design. Making his way over the canal at
Trotterbeck, Mr. Garland, taking the least direct road to Malby, so
managed as to set Miss Gower down at that precise spot where the
scene assumed a character of utter loneliness and desolation.
Not easily impressed by any of Nature's moods, the woman felt
nevertheless impelled to stand for a moment on the narrow bridge,
and take in every detail of the weird and solitary landscape.
She was utterly alone ; there did not seem another human being
in the universe beside herself. At first in the distance she could
hear the jingle of Mr. Garland's wheels, and the regular click, click,
of his mare's hoofs; but these sounds grew fainter and fainter, and
at length died utterly away, leaving her in the midst of a silence
she could hear, of an isolation such as she had never before imagined.
The sombre pines-the dark canal-the murmuring reeds-the
rustling rushes-the stunted oak-trees the sorrowful sobbing of
the water as it oozed through some broken lock-gates higher up the
disused canal-all these things forced themselves upon her attention
at once, and would take no denial about impressing themselves on
hermemory.
With that still unsolved mystery shadowing her spirits and
oppressing her recollection, the gloom of the pine woods, seemed to
deepen as she stood, the dark waters to look more treacherous, the
bays where the stream lapped in upon the sward, and the sward
encroached upon the water, more suggestive of what might be lying
or have lain amongst the tangled grass and the oozing mud, and
the dripping weeds and the rank luxuriance of the reeds and rushes.
Bah ! with a shiver Miss Gower sped from the bridge, to plunge
into the greater loneliness of the pine-woods. The air was
full of that peculiar scent which comes only when the spines and
the cones of the firs are falling-a scent which is not that of
awaking life, as in the early spring, but of death. As she looked
to right and left, she could see nothing but the regular lines of trees,
light brown trunks standing in symmetrical order. There was not
the sound of a woodman's axe, not even the distant murmur of
children's voices ; there were no songs of birds, nothing save the
rustling of the dry, dead leaves, as some rabbit skurried away to its
burrow.

Although every inch of this wood had been examined, and each
pit and ditch searched, it seemed to Miss Gower that her relative
must be lying in some nook which had escaped observation.
Imagination was not her strong point ; yet, as she hurried along,
she thought she must next day ask Mr. Garland to return there
with her, in order that they two might look for themselves, and
get rid of the haunting visions that had begun to torment her of
the missing man lying there all alone, through the solitary nights,
and days ; the pines shutting out the blue sky and the breeze of
heaven, and keeping grim and gruesome guard over the secrets
hidden amongst them.
With a gasp of relief she at length beheld the open country
once again, and hurrying onward, soon found herself crossing the
stretch of common-land which intervenes between Saul's Wood
and Saul's Corner.
It was a nastybit of ground, full, as any one who had ever taken
a short cut over the grass knew, of unexpected hillocks, deep drains,
the gnarled roots of ancient thorn-trees, and inexplicable swampy
spots, in which the unwary adventurer usually plunged over his
ankles .
A charming place for children to disport themselves, had there
been any children near at hand to take advantage of such lavish
opportunities for covering themselves with mud and running the
risk of breaking their limbs ; but there were few boys and girls
resident at all near at hand. Such cottages as the neighbourhood
boasted were perched away amongst the gorse and heather on
Wilderness Heath, and there was not a human habitation of any
sort or description nearer Saul's Corner than Taunton Hall.
It was with not a little curiosity that Miss Gower paused as she
approached this house, and looked at so much of the edifice as could
be seen from the highway. A great gloomy pile of red brick,
festooned up to the very chimney-pots with ivy-a mansion any
man might have been proud to call his home-stately, mysterious,
with a certain air of dignity, spite of the decay and neglect visible
upon it, which appealed to the best, if the weakest, part of Miss
Gower's nature.
"What would I not give to own such a residence," she thought,
and then she stepped aside from the main road to ask a passing
labourer which was the entrance to Taunton Hall.
" You'd best go through the next gate and across the stable-yard
and up to the dooryou'll see in the right-hand corner," he answered,
in the lazy Surrey accent and laborious drawl to which years had
rendered Miss Gower so familiar.
"But I do not want to go to the back-door," she said, mounting
immediately her high horse ; " I wish to see some of the family."
"Well, it is all one," was the stolid reply. "Whoever you
want to see, you'll have to inquire for them where I tell you. If
the Queen was to take it into her head to stop at the Hall, she'd
have to go in at the back door, or else stay outside. The Squire has
sworn a great oath, they say, not to open the hall-door to man or

70 The Disappearance ofMr. Jeremiah Redworth.
woman. If he had shut it many a year ago, mayhap he'd a-bin
richer to-day."
"A singular family this into which my cousin has married,
thought Miss Gower, with a certain amount of satisfaction, as she
picked her way up the back avenue, and across a large and oldfashioned stable-yard at the furthest corner of which, and quite
overshadowed by a fine chestnut-tree, was the door at which John
Redworth and Inspector Downing had entered on the night after
Mr. Redworth's disappearance.
On this occasion the door stood wide open, showing the spacious
hall stone-flagged, and the numerous doors opening to right and
left, which told of the ample domestic arrangements planned by the
builders of the mansion, who never could have imagined the day
would come when all the pomp and circumstances of a once-great
family would be represented by a wild, impecunious, moody, daredevil Squire, an imperfectly-educated and gipsy-like sister, and au
old serving-woman-the most worthy individual of the three.
It was this person who at sight of Miss Gower came hurrying
across from the dairy, a look of eager expectation on her face, which
changed to one of despondency when she heard Miss Gower's first
sentence .

" I called to inquire when Mr. and Mrs. Redworth are expected
back."
" I beg your pardon, miss ; I made sure you were one of the
ladies from the Vicarage as have come new into Cadlebury, and
were talking of taking their butter and eggs from here. I was just
printing the pats when I saw you coming, and lovely butter it is."
" They sell to anybody who will buy then," mentally remarked
Miss Gower ; answering aloud-
" I shall be very glad to have some from you if you have any to
spare. I did not know there was such a thing to be purchased here."
" Bless you, yes, miss. We sell everything but fruit, and that
don't really pay for the picking. I might say bushels of strawberries
rotted on the ground this summer. You were asking about Miss
Lettie-or, as I should say, Mrs. Redworth. I had a letter this
morning from Mr. Richard, where he says his sister had been very
ill-some sort of fever ; but he hoped they would soon be able to
get her home again. He says she is pining like for the old place."
" It is a place anyone might be proud of," answered Miss
Gower, graciously.
"Ay, poor thing ; but it's little either of pleasure or comfort
she has had in it," remarked the woman, with a sigh.
" Let us hope, then, the future may make amends for the past,"
said Miss Gower. " Her husband is one of the most amiable of
human beings. "
" You know him, miss ? " asked the woman, curling up the
corner of her apron with her fingers, and looking curiously at her
visitor.
" Know him ! of course I do-he is my cousin."
" Well, miss ; if you'll excuse the liberty, I must make so bold

as to say I am very glad to see you. It will be like new life to
Miss Lettie to hear anybody belonging to Mr. John has been over.
She used to take on because she was afraid none of his friends
would be agreeable to the match."
" You seem to be very much attached to your mistress," remarked Miss Gower.
" No one could be off being attached to her that knew her,"
was the answer. " She hasn't a fault, except that she is at times a
bit quick in her temper ; but then it's off almost before you could
say it had been on. But I am sure I humbly ask your pardon,
miss ; here I have been letting you stand, and never asking you in,
or if you would please to take any refreshment. You must be
tired, miss, ifyou walked from Cadlebury."
"No, I drove over ; that is, a friend left me at Saul's Corner,
and he is to call for me as he returns. If I should not be disturbing
you, I should like to wander a little about the place. I have so
often noticed it as we passed ; you must have fine gardens, have you
not ? "
" Ay, no finer in the county, once upon a time, but they are
gone to wreck and ruin. Still you can see what they have been,
and there is some good fruit yet on the trees, if you have a fancy
for any, and I could make you a cup of tea, miss, in about a quarter
of anhour, when I have finished printing the butter."
" Oh ! by the bye, the butter," exclaimed Miss Gower. " If you
could spare me three pounds, and some eggs, and lend me a basket,
Ishould be so much obliged. No, I will not have any tea, thank
you ; but after I have been through the gardens, perhaps you would
give me a glass of milk. You are quite certain I shall not be
intruding if I walk round the place ? "
" Intruding ! " repeated the old woman. " The Squire would
be only too proud to think you had come over, and I can tell you,
Miss Lettie will be so pleased she won't know what to do."
" They are in Paris, I think you said."
"Yes, miss. The Squire sent me an envelope with the address
on, for he knows I am no great scholard. Here it is," she added,
pulling some papers out of an inner pocket, " and his letter too, if
you would care to look at it, miss. They both write to me as free
as if I was their mother, which, indeed, I might be, having known
them ever since they were born."

CHAPTER XII .

WHAT MISS GOWER BEHELD IN THE PORCH.

THROUGH an arched doorway leading out of the stable-yard, Miss
Gower passed into the shrubberies, so wild and neglected in some
parts, that the laurels had grown completely over the walks, and
made a roof of greenery which shut out even the light of day.
On the lawn the grass grew rank. It had not been mowed all

the summer, and the thunder showers and the autumn rains had
beaten it down level with the ground. Underneath the trees the
dead leaves of the dead years were lying rotting. Every weed of
its kind seemed to grow in that place and to multiply exceedingly.
Nettles, docks, and benweed contested the ground with rare shrubs
and exquisite plants, but nothing seemed to be cared for ; creepers
trailed untrained, the roses had flung long branches across the walks
-honeysuckles lay prone on the ground, and the jessamine sprays
were wildly searching about for something against which to lean.
With that instinctive sense of order and fitness, which was part
and parcel of her nature, Miss Gower, as she walked along, employed
her deft fingers in finding supports for the creepers, and lifting the
roses from the untrimmed box edgings.
Quite as much a matter of course it seemed to her to try to put
things straight, as it had evidently been to the Tauntons to leave
everything to go awry.
Such a wilderness of a kitchen-garden ! Miss Gower as she
pushed open the door leading into it, stood for a moment appalled.
Plantations of Jerusalem artichokes, cabbages all run to seed,
towering lettuces-turnips showing yellow flowers-convolvulus
smothering the raspberry canes-bindweed climbing up the espaliers
-shoots wildly flying wide from the trees once trained against the
walls-ruddy-cheeked apples guarded by a growth of noble nettles
-mellow pears, which could only be gathered after a wrestle with
briers and thistles.
" Oh ! what can these people be ? " she cried, almost aloud.
" If I had such a home there should not be a weed on the beds, or
a bramble across the walks."
She passed on to the fields beyond, where an evident attempt to
farm well had been made ; but the old story of carelessness and lack
of method could be read in the broken fences and the dilapidated
gates in the reeds rotting in the canal-and the mud silted up
amongst the rushes .
"Want ofmoney-want ofmethod-want of self-respect-want
of respect for the opinion of others this is the story he who runs
may read here, and John has thrown his lot in with such people,
and will reap his reward. As he has sown he must gather."
Thus soliloquizing, Miss Gower walked back towards the house,
this time taking a different route, which brought her at length close
to Squire Marmaduke's last resting-place.
She had heard of this mausoleum before, and now paused to
read, with some curiosity, the only words graven on the marble-
" Do not pity me, I sleep sound."
She stood and thought about it. Stood and wondered about
the dead, with no echo from the outer world breaking the terrible
stillness. What could have been his story ? What had he done
with his life ? How all alone in that great house did he occupy
those evening hours of existence which preceded this long sleep ?
She could not feel surprised at the place having an evil reputation.
She was not sure herself that she should care to rise morning after

morning and look out upon that solitary grave, with its silent
iteration of a fact no one would ever have dreamed of disputing.
Had he lain, when living, through long nights awake ? had he
tossed wearily, seeking for rest and finding none ? had he in the
hours of darkness beheld, as in a vision, the desolation coming upon
his house ? had he indeed gone down to his grave hoping nothing,
fearing nothing ?
The influence of the scene and the hour was upon her, while
she walked slowly away, pondering sadly. Was this, indeed, all
wealth and rank had been able to do for a man ? Was this all the
world and its pleasures could give in the way of happiness ? The
greatest good, to sleep sound-the highest bliss, to lie quite quiet
with closed eyes and folded hands.
If this were so--
She had reached this point in her meditations when, lifting her
eyes, she saw something that caused every nerve in her body to
thrill with expectancy, astonishment, and delight.
She had reached a point from which she could distinctly see
the hall door .
The branches of a great cedar tree shaded her eyes from the
glare of the setting sun, but the light fell perfectly distinct upon
the porticoed porch, the old-fashioned windows that flanked the
door, the steps, and the figure of a man standing upon them.
It was her uncle ! She could not be mistaken. At last-at
last, quite safe and sound, erect as ever, umbrella in hand, waiting
to be admitted. Miss Gower was not in the habit of running, but
she did run then-through the long tangled grass she sped, unmindful of bramble or mound, or moisture, or a pain which shot
through her left side.
" Uncle ! uncle ! " she cried, as she reached the edge of the gravel
sweep, but he never answered her call.
His silence did not surprise her, for she heard that her voice
was hoarse, and knew that the sound of it could not carry far.
Just for an instant she paused to draw breath, and to ease that
dragging pain in her side, then she ran forward once again .
It was Mr. Redworth-there could not be the slightest doubt
about that.
It was he as had left his home more than two months previously, wearing the same clothes, holding the same umbrella ;
neither leaner nor fatter-changed in no one single respect.
In the rapture of seeing him once more, she forgot to marvel at
the singularity of the coincidence at the extraordinary chance of
herself and Mr. Redworth visiting Taunton Hall on the same day
and at the same time.
" Uncle ! uncle ! " she screamed at the very pitch of her voice,
forgetful for once of the proprieties and of all possible listeners
and spectators. " Uncle !" but he never stirred.
" Uncle," she repeated, and there crept over her a subtle and
intangible dread. " Uncle ; it is I, Hilda ! " but still he never turned .
By this time she had grown sick with an inexplicable fear
; but

she was no coward, this pale-faced, sleek-haired, careful-handed
woman-quite the contrary-and for this reason she pressed on and
drew closer and closer to the steps, and said again, " Uncle ! "
Then all at once her heart seemed to drop out of her body, and
she clutched at the pillars of the porch to support her.
For no living being stood there.
She could see the steps covered with untrodden mosses, the
straggling hop vine wreathed across the entrance, the door Squire
Taunton had closed so resolutely against all comers-but of the
familiar figure she had beheld, no sign, no token ! Before her
there was utter vacancy.
On each side of the porch beneath the high long windows of
the Hall stood a very old and curiously-carved stone seat, and it
was upon one of these Miss Gower found herself when at length
she could again see the light of day, the neglected lawn, the gloomy
cedars, and the great sweep of drive in front of the lonely house.
Very slowly memory gave her back a thorough recollection of
what had occurred.
" I did not dream it," she considered. " I did see him-fancy
played no trick with me then. What does it mean ? What can
it mean ? Have I gone mad, or--"
" I have been a' most all over the place looking for you, miss,"
here interposed the Tauntons' only domestic. " I could not think
where you had got to, till Dan told me he see a lady walking round
by the tomb. I've brewed you a cup of tea, miss, hoping you
would excuse the liberty ; but whatever, miss, is the matter with
you ? Have you been taken with a faintness ? You are as white
as if you had seen a ghost."
" I don't know about that," answered Miss Gower, slowly ;
"but I know what I have seen. You have heard about Mr. Redworth's disappearance ? "
" Surely, miss-everybody has heard of that."
" Well, of course I scarcely expect you to believe me ; but, as
truly as I speak, I saw Mr. Redworth standing at that door not
ten minutes ago."
" For any sake, miss, don't say that-oh ! for any sake, don't
think that," and the woman wrung her hands as she spoke.
" I tell you I saw him as plainly as I see you now. I ran
across the lawn to speak to him. I called him when I was standing there, and again and again till I came quite close to the steps.
The whole of that time I saw him, and then all in a minute he disappeared."
" You fancied it, miss you just fancied it all. How could it
be; here one minute and away the next ? What would he be doing
here at a door that has not been opened for years . Look at it-at
the green mould on the steps, at the hops growing right across
from one side to the other- oh ! miss, whatever you do, don't go
away with a notion like that. It would fairly kill Miss Lettie if
she were to hear such a thing spoken of. "
" Well, I saw him at any rate," persisted Miss Gower. " Fifty

Miss Letties, and a thousand hop-plants, and the accumulated
moss of centuries cannot alter that fact. With my own eyes I saw
Mr. Redworth standing upon the doorstep ; and what makes this all
the stranger, is that it was not farfrom here he was seen last alive."
"We
Well, miss, it is not for me to contradict you, but if it was
Mr. Redworth you saw standing here, where is he now ? "
" That is just what I would give anything to know," answered
Miss Gower ; " and what I mean to know," she added, under her
breath, as she rose, and, accompanied by the old woman, slowly
retraced her way to the house, where that cup of tea was still being
brewed to death.

CHAPTER XIII .

MR. GARLAND'S REVELATION .

For a wonder, Miss Gower felt disposed to be frank and confidential
with Mr. Garland, as they drove behind that gentleman's mettlesome mare back to the Wastes ; but she restrained her impulse,
and, in consequence, lapsed into reverie.
" You seem a bit low, miss," suggested Mr. Garland, when he
felt he could endure his companion's silence no longer. "Heard no
bad news over yonder, I hope ? "
" No, oh, no," she replied, rousing herself. " Only it's a depressing place, I think."
" Well, as for that, any place would be depressing that hadn't
made the acquaintance of a good scythe and a sharp pruning-knife
for years and years. What the Hall wants, inside and outside,
is, what you might call a good spring cleaning. It's a bother while
it's about, but lor ! how sweet and clean everything do seem
afterwards, to be sure ! Yes, I take it, all the Hall needs is to be
turned, in a manner of speaking, out of windows. It wants a
thorough whitewashing, and painting, and scrubbing all the spiders
and their webs swept away, all the corners looked after, the walks
gravelled and the grass mowed, and the ricks let stand a year
before they are sold. It is a shame to see a fine place let go to
ruin, as that is doing. There is not a better bit of land in the
neighbourhood. Why, in those meadows by the canal, you should
be able to see stock fatten while you are looking on. The Squire
ought now to turn over a new leaf, clean and clear up, and try to
get before the world a little. I believe he could do it, too, if he
would only dig up old Marmaduke, and take him over to Cadlebury
Churchyard. 'Tain't right, in Christian times, to have a corpse
forming the centre ornament of a pleasure-ground. It is no wonder,
I am sure, that folks say the Hall is haunted."
" No, I do not think it is," answered Miss Gower, with a shiver.
" It is an eerie sort of place, Mr. Garland."
" Come, come," said Mr. Garland, with rough kindness. "You
must not let yourself down like this. Why, I shall begin to think

you have seen Mr. Redworth. People do say, you know, he walks
about there ."
"Say my uncle walks about the Hall ? "
"Well, about Saul's Wood, and the Hall, and such like. But
lor ! what won't people say ? "
Miss Gower clutched the rail of the dog-cart, and looked
straight between the mare's ears, which were laid amiably flat back
on her neck, while she thought over this statement. Then she asked,
" Mr. Garland, do you think my uncle is really dead ? "
" Think ? " he repeated, surprised. " I am sure of it, miss.
Wherever he may be, and that's most like only known to his Maker,
himself, and the man as made away with him, he'll never turn up
again in Ludham alive. Often when I heard the old ladies talk about
his having levanted with some slut of a girl or schemer of a widow,
I laughed to myself at the notion of a man of his sort exchanging
his comforts for the company of any woman on earth. No, miss,
that notion won't hold water, or we ain't driving home to The
Wastes to-night."
" You mistake," remarked Miss Gower, who had listened quite
patiently to the foregoing sentence. " What I meant was, do you
think it possible he may be kept anywhere, locked up ? "
" In a madhouse, or such like," suggested Mr. Garland, as she
paused. " No, miss, I don't. Because, why, how would his being
locked up benefit anybody ? People don't run the risk of getting
themselves into trouble, now-a-days, for the mere pleasure of the
thing. Wherever Mr. Redworth may be, he is dead enough; and
so you need not fret yourself by supposing to the contrary."
Had it all, then, been an optical delusion ? Miss Gower understood there were such things-nay, had experienced deceptions of
the kind when, in her girlhood, she fell into a low state of health.
The form they then assumed was that of black spots, and things
like morsels of cobwebs floating before her eyes-black spots which
appeared to her perfectly real-cobwebs she often lifted her hand
to brush away.
She had not thought of these things for years, but now they
recurred to her with a curious sense of satisfaction. Far too sensible to try to terrify herself by dwelling upon the figure which
appeared so real, she gladly seized on any idea likely to account for
the phenomenon.
Seated beside homely, practical, matter-of-fact Mr. Garland,
N
Miss Gower found that, with every stride of the vaunted mare
homeward towards The Wastes, she felt more inclined to disbelieve
the evidence of her senses.
The keen fresh air which blew across the hills was less favourable to the tricks of fancy than the damp dull air that hung around
Taunton Hall.
There was a mystery, but Miss Gower began to reject the
extremity of such a mystery as the appearance of her uncle standing
at the door of Taunton Hall suggested.
" I think," she said to Mr. Garland, " when I visit Taunton

Hall again, I shall not go by way of Saul's Corner. Its worst
enemy could not describe that route as cheerful. "
" Cheerful," repeated her companion with a laugh, " my word,
no. That bit by the water, where the reeds grow so thick, and the
path to match through the wood, is as ugly a piece of country as
anybody need desire to see. I can tell you I did not half like
leaving you there to-day, but you would not be said. A wilful
woman must have her way."
" What could be my uncle's fancy for choosing such dreary
roads," marvelled Miss Gower ; but Mr. Garland only shook his
head in reply, and intimated that some higher power alone could
understand that puzzle.
" For myself, " added Mr. Garland, playfully touching up the
mare, who at once broke into a canter, " I am quite free to say I
never did understand the governor, and I never expect to do so
now. There was ways in him I never could make head nor tail of,
and that I don't believe anybody else ever made head or tail or
either, and so far as I am concerned, miss, I just wish you could
put him clean out of your head, and never go a-nigh Taunton Hall
no more. It's a nice enough place, and I dare say they are nice
enough people for them as likes such a lot, but I don't believe
either one or t'other will suit you, miss. There's a breeze for you ! "
proceeded Mr. Garland, sniffing up the air which came from moors
where the heather and the gorse grew thick. " No churchyard smell
about that, no dead leaves and rotting rushes- clear and sweet and
wholesome."
And Mr. Garland, radiant with natural pride and pleasure in
residing so far above his neighbours, drove up to his own door, and
commended Miss Gower to the especial care of Mrs. Garland, with
the words-
" She's a bit low, like."
Not a week later, however, Mr. Garland himself returned from
Cadlebury not merely a " bit " low, but very low indeed.
That he had partaken freely of stimulants was quite evident,
yet he immediately called for more.
" Hot and strong ! " he roared, and when the desired mixture was
brought, he astonished every one by draining off the contents of
his glass, and then asking for his prayer-book.
"Now whatever can he want with that, and Sunday three days
off," audibly conjectured Mrs. Garland.
" Never you mind, Mrs. G.," answered her husband, " make
yourself quite easy, it ain't the order for Holy Matrimony I want
to look up, you may be sure. Once was enough of that sort of
thing. No, I remember, it ain't here at all. Miss Gower, would
you be so good as to turn down a leaf for me in your Bible, if it is
handy, where there is that story about the Witch of Endor."
" Certainly," answered Miss Gower, and she found the chapter
he referred to without comment, only looking at him curiously as
she laid the book beside his elbow.
" My eyes are a trifle weak," remarked Mr. Garland, after he

had vainly tried to steady his sight sufficiently to decipher the
small type. " Driving over The Wastes is trying after night, more
particularly when there is a north wind blowing in one's teeth, and
aweakly moon dodging in and out, and playing at bo-peep among
the clouds. Would you mind," he added, with an appealing look
to Miss Gower, "just reading me out that piece-you know."
Very clearly and distinctly Miss Gower read out the whole of
the chapter, Mr. Garland indicating the points which affected him
most deeply by striking the palm of his hand on the table.
"You see there were such things then," he remarked huskily ,
when she had finished. " It seems strange that a man should be
able to eat after seeing such a sight."
And Mr. Garland's tone indicated that something in the shape
of a stimulant might have been preferable.
At that minute the youngest of the house of Garland entered,
holding on to his mother's skirts, and chattering as he ran along.
He had been over to Cadlebury with his father, and was full of
the day's adventures.
" And oh ! ma," he was saying when his utterances first reached
Miss Gower's ear. " Part of the way there was a man walked so
fast beside us. Though pa made the mare gallop, he was able to
keep up. I never did see anybody walk so quick before ; and pa
has got a cold, ma, he has been shaking and shivering for ever so
long."
" Now," interposed Mr. Garland, hastily, " is that child going
to bed to-night, mother, or is he not-because, when I was young,
little boys was not let sit up to interfere with the comfort of their
elders. There, run along, sonny, that's a fine little man ; and, Miss
Gower, my dear, would youjust mix me the least drop more spirits,
my hand is a bit shaky to-night. I have got a cold driving by
those damp meadows. To-morrow," he added, mysteriously, as
Mrs. Garland bore her child off to bed-having previously made a
statement to the effect that if " some people would go there themselves it might be better for other people "-" To-morrow-quietly,
you know-by that fallen tree on the corner of the path overlooking
Dangermere - I have got something to tell you just by yourselfyou understand ; but mum's the word now, and indeed I think it
may be as well to follow the missus's advice, and go to bed while
I can."
" Let me assist you to the door," said Miss Gower, amiably,
and she helped him to his feet and guided him across the carpet,
and placed his hand on the bannisters with a dexterity and an
appreciation of the position which would have made Miss Redworth stare .
By this time Miss Gower was quite at home with the Garland
family. She had her own private sitting-room, it is true, but she
rarely occupied it, preferring the appreciative friendliness of the
farmer's circle to the solitary stateliness of her select apartment.
At The Wastes she was made more of than she had ever been,
even in Dorking Street. There Mr. Redworth was the prominent

figure in the household, but amongst the Garlands Miss Gower
was queen. And that she liked the position, there was no denying.
Next morning Mr. Garland was sober and sad. Mrs. Garland
had not been agreeable in many of her remarks, and besides, his
head was, as he stated confidentially to Miss Gower, " fit to fly into
a thousand pieces."
" Sit you down there, miss," he said, indicating the smoothest
portion of the fallen tree, " and I'll take a rest at the same time
myself. I fancy I must have had a drop too much last night, I
feel so queer and shaky. You mixed that finishing up tumbler
pretty stiff, didn't you now ? You were a trifle liberal with the
liquor ; but then, lor, tain't that as is the matter with me, " added
Mr. Garland magnanimously, " and there is no use telling lies about
it, though mind you, if I hadn't have let slip what I did when I was all
upset, I'd have kept it close and snug, even from you, I would."
" I don't think you would, Mr. Garland," answered Miss Gower,
" not from me, at any rate."
"Well, perhaps you're right, and it may be right for you to know
it, seeing how things was between him and you. Now, mind, miss,
you're not to consider what I am going to tell you was the outcome
of liquor, for it wasn't, though I don't deny I had drank a decent
lot at Cadlebury. I might have thought this morning 1 had
imagined it, but the child was with me, and you heard what the
child said last night."
" Yes, I heard," answered Miss Gower.
" I suppose you know there has always been tales concerning
something that haunts the Hall. It is an old story now, and most
folks as have not to go past there after dark thinks an idle story, too."
" It is said a figure follows people. I recollect hearing it talked
about."
" Well, I've driven past the place often enough after dark, and
in the noonday, with the sun shining, and the rain pelting, but I
never saw anything worse nor myself till ”
" Last night," supplied his auditor, as he paused.
Mr. Garland took off his hat and wiped his forehead, though
the season was autumn, and the day not warm.
" I don't think I am a coward," he said. " I hope I ain't ; but,
I declare, I shall always take the other road to Cadlebury, though
it is a matter of three miles further. "
" Tell me what you saw, Mr. Garland," entreated Miss Gower.
" If it concerns my uncle, I have, as you say, a right to know, and
we may be interrupted."
" That's true, miss, well, here goes. I had met a few friends in
Cadlebury, and taken as much as was good for me, though, mind
you, may be I might have taken a tumbler more if it had not been
for the child. But I did not want to keep him out very late, so the
ostler at the ' Three Fighting Cocks ' put the mare in, and I took
the reins, and off we went at a good round pace, for the mare she
was fresh, and the oats at the ' Cock ' are good, and she knew her
nose was turned to her own stable, and there ! she did spank along.

" I left it pretty well to her, for, lor ! she don't need no driving,
she don't. I'd back her to thread her way in and outamong the
traffic of Cheapside as well as I could guide her.
" We had done the distance from Cadlebury in quick time, and
were just passing what used to be, in old Marmaduke's time, the
main entrance to the Hall, when bang my lady gives a shy that
nearly upset the trap, and then off she went like the very devilbegging your pardon for using such an expression.
" She had never shied before to my knowledge, and what with
surprise and being well nigh pitched out of the dog-cart myself
(the rug was strapped round the child), and trying to pull her up, I
did not at first notice what had frightened her, till suddenly I saw
on the grass by the roadside a man keeping up with us. If you
believe me, miss, walking and keeping up easily, though the mare
was tearing along the road at a mad gallop.
" It was all I could do to hold her. We went down to Saul's
Corner like a flash of lightning, and then, of her own will, for she
was, Imay say, beyond my control, she slackened her speed, and
stopped dead.
" I could feel her trembling. It shook the trap, and at herhead,
miss you may believe me or not as you like was the same figure I
had seen. It had kept pace with us all the way.
" Either of her own accord, or because he told her, most like
bocause he did, the mare turned slowly round-I'll swear I
never pulled the reins--turned slowly round and began trotting feebly
like back to Cadlebury. I could not have hindered her if my life
had depended on it, and on the grass by the roadside the figure still
held foot with her.
" I could see him plainly in the moon's sickly light. There
was the pines of Saul's Wood, there was the bit of common with its
tufts of heather, and its holes and pitfalls, there was Wilderness
Heath, and there was he.
" Father, father,' says Willie, ' doesn't that man walk fast-did
you ever see a man walk so fast before ?' The lad, you understand,
thought it was a man, and did not feel frightened like me and the mare.
" At the sound of a human voice, even though it was but a
child's, the mare gathers courage, pricks up her ears, and makes
another dash for it. The noise of her own hoofs seemed to give
ber spirit, and maybe she thought she was leaving it behind, for
she broke from a trot into a canter, and from a canter into a
gallop, and I sat holding the reins without a bit of strength in
my hands or body.
" When we neared the gates again, just the same thing happened as had occurred at Saul's Corner, the mare, of her own
accord, slackened speed and stopped dead.
" Then I saw the figure once more standing at her head.
Mr. Garland paused and drew a long breath, and stared
straight away over Dangermere, as if he beheld something very far
off indeed .
Miss Gower, her hands clasped, her fingers locked together,

" We went down to Saul's Corner like a flash of lightning."
P. 80.

watched him as she had watched him from the beginning of his
narrative .
"Was that all ?" she asked, finding her companion began to
pull the bark off the tree, and made no effort to continue.
" That's not all, " he answered, " though in my humble opinion it
is more than enough. Iwas just trying to speak, Ihad opened my
mouth and wetted my lips, and meant to get out some word, when
the figure turned and walked quite leisurely through the closed
gates. It went straight up to them and disappeared. The mare she
tried to follow, there seemed a spell laid on her, you understand,
but it waved its hand, and she stopped obedient.
" I do not know how long I had sat there stunned-not long, I
dare say-when I felt Willie pulling at my sleeve, and asking if we
were going home. He was not a bit frightened, bless you, he
did not understand. For myself alone, I don't think I could have
done it, but for the sake of the child I tried to draw myself together,
and spoke to the mare, and touched her with the whip to waken
her up and get her round. If she had been turned into stone she
could not have minded me less, no, miss, she could not. She
stood there, under the shade of those black old trees, with her head
down and her knees bent under her, trembling like a Christian."
" How soon did she move ? " asked Miss Gower.
" She never moved at all ; if I had left her to herself she would
have been there till now. I screwed up my courage at last and got
down, and took her by the head, and in a manner of speaking forced
her away from the gate. The creature was all in a lacher. When I
laid my hand on her I might have dipped it in water, it was so wet.
" I had to lead her every step of the way to Saul's Corner. I
don't expect you to credit it, but she would scarce put one foot
before the other, and I was compelled, as I may say, to drag her along.
" It was the longest mile I ever walked, and the moon she kept
blinking in and out, and the wind it howled and howled across
Wilderness Heath, and then went sobbing and moaning among the
pines, and the mare she did nothing but stumble, stumble, and slip
about as if she was drunk or travelling over ice. I had to keep a hold
of her till we got to Trotterbeck Bridge. I came home that way,
for though she stepped out freer after we left Saul's Corner behind,
she made as if to stop every now and then, but at the ferry-house
there I got her a quart of ale and put a dash of spirits in it-they
are licensed, you know and she didn't lose much time after that I
can tell you. Right glad was I to get up on The Wastes again,
though the wind blew fit to blow a fellow's eyes out ; and now I
think that is all I have to tell you."
" No ; you have to tell me something more. Did you see the face
-did you recognize the- ? " and Miss Gower paused expressively.
" I did, miss, I did ; it was himself, none other. "
" You remember a question I asked you the other day," said
Miss Gower. " Do you know why I asked it ? "
" I have been turning the matter over in my mind," answered
Mr. Garland, slowly, " and I expect you saw him too."
4*

She nodded in answer.
" I suppose,” he went on, " you don't feel disposed to say no
more about it ? "
" There is not much to say," was her reply. "Either he was
standing at the hall door that afternoon I went over there, or I
fancied so. When I got across the lawn and gravel sweep, however,
he was gone."
"Aye, aye," commented Mr. Garland, " I thought as much.”
" That," she continued, " was why I asked if you conceived it
possible he was kept away by anyone. Do you still hold to your
opinion that he is not ? "
" Firmer nor ever," he answered. " I'd be glad to think he
was staying away of his own accord, or kept away, or out of his
head, or anything except what I must think I would indeed.
But it is out of the question. What you saw at the hall-door might
have been him or anybody else for that matter, but what I saw
could neither have been him nor anybody else in the flesh. For it
was not even as if the thing had run, though the smartest young
fellow would have found his work cut out to keep up with the
mare. It did not run, it did not seem to hurry ; it kept beside us
as a shadow does, without seeming trouble or even movement. It
was just there always alongside-gliding, gliding on. And then,
though it was his face it was not his face."
There ensued silence for a moment, dead silence, during the
continuance of which Mr. Garland picked away industriously at
the bark of the fallen tree, and Miss Gower let her eyes travel over
the Wastes to far-off Dangermere.
Suddenly she said,-
" What do you think of it all, Mr. Garland ? What is your
reading of the mystery ? "
Mr. Garland paused before he answered-looked all around him
as if suspicious of eavesdroppers, drew closer to his companionso close that she could hear his voice, though subdued to a mere
whisper. Then he began,-
" Look here, miss, this is between you and me, ain't it, between
you and me only ? "
" Of course," she murmured.
" He did not treat you well, everybody knows that; and for my
part I can't understand why he should have gone past you for the
sake ofthe handsomest woman that ever lived;but stillhe was blind
and he did choose Miss Taunton, we can't get over that."
Miss Gower winced as if she had received a blow.
" Yet still," proceeded Mr. Garland, " such is the loveliness of
your nature, that, instead of being angry with him, as indeed most
might, and saying this, that, and the other about his wife, you stand
by him, and go over to Taunton Hall and make little of your own
slight, and, in a word, to cut it short, act more like an angel than a
woman."
The angel so addressed made no verbal reply. She only raised
herhand as deprecating further laudation.

The Disappearance ofMr. Jeremiah Redworth . 83
" Such being the case," went on Mr. Garland, " I can speak free
-I must speak free. I liked the young man myself-I always did
like him, and I stood up for him, you know that, but when you
ask me what I think of these events- these signs and tokensomens, as indeed they may well be considered, I can only answer
you straightforward. I believe John Redworth was the cause of
his father's death. I believe the old gentleman met with his death
at Taunton Hall or Saul's Corner, or some place between the two.
I believe there is great trouble in store for John if he stays about
these parts, and that the poor dead father, who was main fond of
his favourite son, has come back from his grave to ask you and
me, who he knows are faithful friends, to try and persuade him to
leave England entirely and go away before worse comes of it."
On the side of Mr. Redworth senior this seemed to be such an
entirely preposterous proceeding that Miss Gower looked at Mr.
Garland amazed, and was about to express her dissent from his
conclusions ; but she saw he was so much in earnest, that he felt
the power of his argument so completely, that she altered her
intention and said-
" It may be so. No one can understand the length and breadth
of a parent's affection, and Mr. Redworth loved John very dearly.
All I suppose, however, we can do for the present is to wait and
watch and see. I tell you candidly that, unless John be very much
changed, it would be worse than useless to endeavour to influence him
with any account of what we have seen. He would think, perhaps,
we were trying to entice him into some admission ; or if he did not
do that, he would be quite certain to suggest thatI had been dreaming, and that you--- "
"Had taken a drop too much," finished Mr. Garland, so naively
that Miss Gower smiled, in spite of herself. " I thought of that.
He was always a trifle given to jeering and scoffing, and mocking,
not ill-naturedly, but in a good-humoured sort of way. Still, I
can't fancy he'd make a jest of this. You see, if his conscience ain't
clear, and I'm afraid it can't be, the image of the old man must
always be rising before him always. Upon the other hand, he may
be as innocent as our Willie, and then it would be hard to name
such a thing to him. There, I must leave it to you, miss you that
are fond of him, and that know him so well, can manage to give
him a hint better than a stranger. With your good leave I'll wash
my hands of the matter, only if you want my help tell me. There's
me, and there's the mare, but, lor ! I'm afraid she won't be much use
at Taunton Hall very soon again. She had a scare last night, poor
beast. At any rate, there's my hand, I'll help you by night or day
if you will only tell me how, and I'll keep the secret of what I saw
close as wax."
Having delivered himself of which peroration, Mr. Garland rose
from the tree and walked away, only to return after he had gone a
few yards to say, in a tragic whisper, " Oh ! I had nearly forgotten
to tell you--they are coming home to-morrow, all on 'em, Mr. and
Mrs. John edworth, and the Squire."

CHAPTER XIV.
MISS GOWER SHOWS HER COLOURS .

DREAR December ! very drear, very raw, and very depressing, that
year, was far spent, when one morning Miss Gower drove by the
long route, over the Wastes and across Wilderness Heath, to
Taunton Hall.
Much as she desired to understand the mystery of Mr. Redworth's death, thoroughly determined though she was to pierce and
peer and pry till she should be able to fasten the guilt of his father's
murder upon John Redworth, and so bring that faithless lover " to
his knees," Miss Gower, nevertheless, could not conquer the
aversion she entertained to passing Saul's Corner. That dismal
bit of road, with its attendant memories of sullen canal and desolate bays, thick with now decaying reeds, of lonely pine woods and
neglected common, filled her soul with a sense of fear she felt
powerless to overcome. Taunton Hall she could manage, more
especially if she kept well away from the front entrance, and from
the disused portions of the house, but not that gloomy wood, which
looked more terrible than Avernus .
During her many visits to Taunton Hall her resentment and her
desire for revenge had both been stimulated to the highest degree by
the sight of beautiful Lettie Redworth, née Taunton, and the spectacle
ofJohn Redworth's anxious devotion to his young wife.
Here was a change indeed. John, who had always been a sort
of grand sultan in his father's house, with a couple of women ever
ready to anticipate his wants, now seemed to find no peace or
pleasure save in waiting upon a mistress as hard to satisfy as she
had been easy to win.
Not a thing seemed really to gratify her. Peevish, affectionate,
exacting, demonstrative, all by turn, she tried, and yet retained her
slave, by exhibitions of temper, and endless caprices that might well
have alienated him from her.
But John's love never changed. The moment after she had irritably
bidden him leave her, he was ready to do her lightest bidding ; when
serving her his feet never grew weary ; to try and give her pleasure
he would have coined his heart into gold if he had only known how.
Miss Gower looked on and marvelled. " She knows his secret,"
she would decide one hour.
" He is afraid of her knowing it," she decided the next, and then
her smile grew brighter and her step more light.
" Some day," she thought, " I will destroy his paradise. His
couch is not all roses now, but at no remote period he shall find it
all thorns ."
By tacit consent she and Mr. Garland avoided all mention of
Taunton Hall and the missing man.
" I have washed my hands of the concern," he repeated more
than once, when he saw Miss Gower bent on solving the still unsolved mystery. " I know nothing, and I want to know nothing.

I am trying to forget, and succeeding, I am thankful to say, fairly.
Perhaps I did take a drop too much at Cadlebury that night, anyhow it ain't no concern of mine, and if I was you, miss, I'd just
drop it. No matter what he has done, he's sorry enough I'll be
bound, and maybe it'd be best for nobody to mell or meddle. "
" I do not wish to do either," answered Miss Gower with
dignity. "All I want is to show my cousin he is not quite deserted,
and his wife, she has at least one female friend. "
" It is very noble of you," commented Mr. Garland, " but I
hope, I do hope, you won't come anigh any harnı over there. You
have got a neat little fortune, you must remember, if you'll excuse
me for making so free as to mention it, and the Squire, all the
world knows, stands in need of money, and he has ways with him
when he chooses as would wile the bird off her bush, and, oh ! miss,
whatever you do don't marry Black Dick. If the old gentleman
never rose from his grave for anything else, he'd rise to prevent
that, and with reason, too.”
" Why, Mr. Garland," answered Miss Gower coquettishly, " the
Squire is most agreeable. I call him a delightful man."
With a sigh and a groan Mr. Garland turned aside in despair.
He did not now offer his own services or those of the mare so freely
as formerly, for he felt that, to use his own expression, Miss Gower
had gone a " step beyond him."
" She's lost her head over the reckless scoundrel," he soliloquized; or maybe she'd thinks she'd like to be mistress of the
Hall. Well, there's no understanding women, and I am sure nobody need want to try and understand them."
So there was silence between Mr. Garland and the young lady,
cnly he groaned when he saw the fat dumpling of a pony Richard
Taunton had selected for her, harnessed in what the farmer
contemptuously called an old clothes'-basket.
" Aye, she'll drive over there once too often," decided Mr. Garland, and Inspector Downing was of his mind.
" She's got the clue,” said that gentleman to himself, in strict
confidence, " but among them they'll hush it up. I see how it will
be. She'll marry the brother and try to queen it at the Hall, and
Dick and she will manage to persuade Jack to leave the countrythat is what the plan is, as far as I can see, at present. "
All of which only proved that Mr. Downing, like many another
of his class, was the victim of a theory-one portion of that theory
being that Miss Gower was deeply in love with handsome, unscrupulous Richard Taunton.
And, indeed, the Squire and his brother-in-law were both of
the same opinion.
It was only Lettie who dissented from it-Lettie, who in those
moments when she could throw aside her mask and appear the
wretched woman she actually was, would lay her hand on Black
Dick's shoulder and say-
" Oh! my dear, my dear, don't let that Delilah deceive you. She
is here for no good. She means no good. She hates us all.

When I first saw her face I trembled and turned cold. See, Dick,
I tremble and turn cold now as I speak of her."
But when did man ever listen to the wisdom of woman if its
utterances were directed against one of her own sex.
" You do not like Hilda, sweet," remarked John Redworth,
one day, " and I am sorry ; for, indeed, I who know her thoroughly,
can assure you she is very very good."
" You are jealous of her, Lettie, that is about the fact of the
matter, " said the Squire, complacently ; and so poor vehement Lettie,
rebuffed on all sides, finding even her old nurse had nothing but
words of praise for the fair- spoken lady, who was always so
beautifully dressed, and ready with her money, and full of pleasant words, relapsed into silence, relinquished all remonstrance.
Indeed she was too ill to have much energy left either for warfare or argument.
She had come home weakly, and, day by day, she felt her
strength failing.
When her husband was away, she sat for hours looking out
listlessly at the mournful canal, at the gloomy trees, at the wet
sodden earth ; just as her father had done after his accident, so did
Lettie now she seemed to have gained the one good she ever desired
-John Redworth for her husband .
Thus it chanced one dreary day in December, when Miss Gower
drove over from the Wastes, Mrs. Redworth was very low both
in health and spirits. The hand Miss Gower took in hers felt cold
and clammy, while the cheek presented reluctantly for her to kiss
was hot and feverish.
" I am afraid you are not so well to-day, dear," remarked Miss
Gower.
" I am never well," was the answer.
" We must try to make you better."
" I do not know how you are to set about it then," retorted
Mrs. Redworth .
" As a beginning," said Mrs. Gower, softly, while, uninvited, she
took off her bonnet and gloves, and removed her fur-jacket, “ I
should earnestly recommend you, Lettie, not to brood so constantly
over the past."
" Perhaps you will be kind enough to mention what portion of
the past you would recommend me to erase from my memory."
" There must be several," replied Miss Gower, with amiable
candour, " upon which it cannot be pleasant for you to dwell-the
mystery of Mr. Redworth's death-the circumstances connected
with your hurried and private marriage-John's disinheritance-all
these you should discard from recollection. You ought to remember that seeing you so constantly low and ailing must be most
wearing to your husband. He is devoted to you, of course, as no
one can know better than yourself, but his very love makes his
anxiety all the keener. His life in itself cannot be pleasant, on
remembering what he must remember, and " She stopped ;
there was a look on Mrs. Redworth's face which daunted even her.

The Disappearance ofMr. Jeremiah Redworth. 87

" How dare you speak to me in such a manner ! " exclaimed
the sick woman; " in what way can my husband's affairs concern
you, what business is it of yours when or where I was married, or
whether I ever was married at all ? I wish you would leave the
house, and never enter it again. Directly John returns home I
shall ask him whether it is by his wish you come here making life
intolerable to me. If you are to remain here constantly, I will go
away. I would rather be away. I wish we had never re-entered
the Hall ."
" I don't wonder at that," returned Miss Gower, " if you have
seen in it what I have seen."
‫دو‬

" What have you seen ?
" Mr. Redworth . John's murdered father," was the answer.
With a moan, John Redworth's wife repeated the words, then
tottering to her feet, she raised her arms above her head, and, before
Miss Gower could reach her, fell heavily to the floor.
" She knows, but he thinks she does not know," decided that
lady, as she rang the bell violently, and raised Lettie's head upon
herknee, and wiped the blood from her mouth.
" Send some one for a doctor at once," she cried, as Black Dick,
followed by the servant, rushed into the room, " your sister is dangerously ill."

CHAPTER XV .

THROUGH THE OPEN DOOR.

MRS. REDWORTH was dangerously ill. So ill that there seemed small
likelihood of her ever being better.
" How long has this been going on ? " asked the Cadlebury doctor,
who was fetched by Dick Taunton, in wild haste.
" She was never very strong, and she caught cold on her
wedding trip, " explained the Squire, but he said it doggedly, as one
who, having reluctantly learned a lesson, repeats it with unwilling
lips.
If Miss Gower had never been considered an angel before, she
must have proved her right to that character then.
" Do not grieve so bitterly," she said to Black Dick, who sat
with arms crossed upon the table and his head resting upon them,
" We will all do our best for her. I will not leave here till she is
better," and she laid her hand, her soft deft hand, on his shoulder
with a caressing assurance as she spoke.
The man did not answer by words, but he lifted his head a little
and pressed his lips to her hand in mute acknowledgment.
" There is nothing," went on Miss Gower, " I would not do for
John, or your sister, or--you."
Ay, truly, nothing. As she spoke her thoughts sped back to
the night when she paced her room in an agony of disappointment
and mortification, and felt herself a woman slighted !
Before an hour had elapsed the pony carriage was on its way

back to the Wastes, without Miss Gower. The lad she had constituted her attendant bore a very touching and affectionate note to
Mrs. Garland, which note next morning brought Mr. Garland and
the mare, and a profusion of such homely delicacies as their larder
boasted, to the Hall .
In the goodness and fulness of his heart, Mr. Garland placed
even at the disposal of Dick Taunton the services of himself and the
mare .

"Any time, day or night," he said, " there's me and there's the
mare, and you, Squire, as is a judge of horseflesh-though I can't
say the pony you chose for Miss Gower did your taste much
credit-come out and look at my nag. There ain't a better nor a
willinger in the whole country side. She is sound to the backbone ;
true, and able, like Miss Gower. Ay, there's a woman, if you
please ; a friend in need a friend indeed, a woman in ten thousand."
" I quite agree with you, Mr. Garland," said Black Dick, wringing the farmer's hand, for Miss Gower's devotion to his sister had
touched him sensibly.
"That is right, that is well spoken," remarked Mr. Garland,
tossing off the tumbler Mr. Taunton had considerately presented,

a woman in ten thousand, that is what she is," which, if Mr.
Garland had known everything, might be regarded as fortunate.
Never was there a more attentive nurse. " I had better stay
withher entirely, John," suggested his cousin, " she talks of things
the knowledge of which it would be as well to keep in the family."
Whereupon poor John, who was only too well aware that there
-were things upon Lettie's mind the outside world ought not to
know, thanked Miss Gower even with tears in his eyes, and invoked
blessings that it is humbly to be hoped never bore fruit.
The poor young thing rambled as she lay, wandered from topic
to topic, from misery to misery. She was always creating for
herself imaginary terrors, and shrinking from them ; always pursued
by some haunting horror which she tried vainly to elude.
She was so weak-she was so incoherent-she was always in
such an agony of fear, it could only be regarded as marvellous that
Miss Gowermanaged to piece together so much as she did-out of
so little to weave so great a whole .
Yes, Miss Gower began to understand it all ; in fact, she believed
she did understand it all, except how Mr. Redworth was murdered,
and the precise spot where he lay. That his grave was somewhere
in the vicinity of the Hall she felt convinced, but that was a matter
of merely minor importance ; as regarded all great details, she had
now the ball at her feet, and could afford to play with and indulge
her victims as an angler humours a trout.
How good she was, and how kind, how untiring in her
attention to Lettie, how punctual in her administration of food and
medicine-how watchful of her repose !
" We ought, John, to have further advice," she said one day .
' If money is the impediment, let me be your banker ; I, you know ,
have enough and to spare."

" Ifyou have," interrupted the Squire, who overheard what was
said, " I wish you would let some of it come this way. I stand in
sore need of filthy lucre."
"Really and truly ? " questioned Miss Gower.
" Really and truly, young lady," answered Mr. Taunton.
" Then why not have some of mine ? " she suggested. " It does
not matter to me where it is, except that of course I should prefer a
friend had the use of it. I mayjust as well take a mortgage over
Taunton Hall as any other Hall or Court inEngland-better if my
doing so will be of the slightest service to you. But, perhaps, all
I have would not be enough. How much do you want ? "
For reply the Squire, looking more curiously and earnestly at
her than he had ever done before in their acquaintance, said he did
not want any, he had been only joking ; spite of which statement,
however, he went two days running to his solicitors, and put together a few articles such as might prove useful in a hurried
journey. Further, he sold some cattle, and did not bank the proceeds in the All England at Cadlebury.
Whilst he was engaged in these proceedings, a great London
doctor arrived to see his sister .
It was quite late in the afternoon before he drove up the principal entrance to Taunton Hall, the gates of which were set wide.
No one knew then who had unfastened the bolts ; but the
flyman, finding them hospitably open, turned in and set down his
fare at the Hall door, and rang a peal fit to bring the house about
his ears.
It was Miss Gower in person who answered the summons-Miss
Gower, graceful and self-possessed as ever.
She had spent a considerable amount of time that morning in
oiling the locks and unfastening the chains, and as she opened the
door she said softly to the doctor-
" I am so thankful to see you," and then stopped-surprised by
a sudden horror.
For, pushing in front of the Doctor, though unseen by him,
there entered the figure of a tall spare man, arrayed in clothes
free from speck or dust, carrying in his hand a trim umbrella.
Stricken for the moment dumb, Miss Gower watched this newcomer flit across the hall and up the staircase.
" I am going mad," she murmured to herself, as the great
physician said -
" I trust I may be able to be of some service, madam," and so
recalled her to the common affairs of life .
When the doctor saw his patient, he looked very grave indeed.
She was sitting up in bed, her long black hair streaming about her
shoulders, her eyes bright with a strained and unnatural light, her
cheeks flushed with excitement.
" Some one," she began, " has opened the hall-door-that door
-Dick fastened up so securely-which I did not open even on the
night when--Who shot back the locks and turned the keys ? " she
asked suddenly and wildly.

" I did," said Miss Gower, in her gentlest tones.
" And who gave you permission to open any door my brother
ordered to be kept shut. You did it on purpose. You did it to let
him in. He came straight up here and looked at me with that
unchangeable face. He is hidden in some corner now," and she
covered her eyes with a cry of indescribable agony and fear.
" This is very bad," remarked the doctor, as he advanced and
laid his hand on her forehead ; poor young thing ! there, there
don't look so frightened. I have only come to do you good.
Lie down quietly, I won't disturb you."
" Make her go away," said the patient.
Surprised, the doctor turned towards Miss Gower, but she was
equal to the occasion.
" Do you want poor Hilda to leave you, dear ? " she cooed,
" surely you would not be so cruel."
"Yes I would," snapped Mrs. Redworth. " I hate the sight of
you, stealing and crawling about me, and you had no right to open
that door. Oh ! dear-oh ! dear, dear me ! "
Miss Gower directed a swift and meaning glance at the doctor,
and then stole out of the room .
" You had better go up," she suggested to the regular medical
attendant, whom she met in the passage, " the London physician is
here. Mrs. Redworth is frightfully restless and unmanageable."
And then Miss Gower did an extraordinary thing a thing
unprecedented. She went to the cupboard in the Squire's especial
sitting-room, where spirits of some kind were always to be found,
and, selecting a bottle which contained brandy, poured herself out
half a wine-glassful and drank off the contents as if they had been
water.
" I wonder if that will make me tipsy," she marvelled, as she
looked in surprise at the deed she had done.
"Hey day," cried Mr. Taunton, entering the room at the
moment, " how is this, Miss Gower ? It can't be possible you have
been converted and are taking to my good ways." And he laughed
out genially.
"Your sister has frightened me," answered Miss Gower coldly.
"Shewas angry at my having opened the hall door, as if one could
invite a physician of eminence to enter the house through a dirty
farmyard."
" You opened the hall door ? " he said, inquiringly.
" Yes, I did," she answered, defiantly, replying to his tone rather
than his words, " as there was no one else to do it for me."
For a moment the Squire pondered over this utterance, then he
strode up to the cupboard, and in his turn pouring out brandy a bumper this time- emptied it as he muttered audibly-
" By --, Lettie was right after all ."
" Master ! " at thisjuncture cried out a shrill voice, " Master, where
are you ? " and thinking his sister was worse, the Squire set down the
decanter and rushed into the passage, followed by Miss Gower.
It was old Deborah who had called-old Deborah standing there,

:

her cap awry, her grey hair disordered, her face distorted with
terror.
" Master, some one has set the front door wide, and he is standing there on the step. Go to him quick before anybody else sees.
He is standing as he did that night when ”
" Will you hold your tongue, you fool ?" demanded the Squire,
savagely, but he made no step forward into the hall.
" The door stands wide, master," frantically persisted the woman,
wild with affright, " and he is there waiting. I dare not go anigh
him myself, but--- "
" I am not afraid, I will go," exclaimed Miss Gower, recklessly,
and she darted past both of them, and was at the foot of the principal staircase before Mr. Taunton could seize her. Then, with an
awful oath, he bade her mind her own business, and, pushing her
on one side, strode towards the door.
It was fast. There were the locks and bolts and chains as
they had been before Miss Gower undid them, but the man's
blood was up and his fear gone, and he shot back the locks and undid
the bolts, and dropped the chains with a great rattle and flung open
the door.
There was not a creature on the step, not a living being to be
seen, and yet he and his companions all felt that something had crossed
the threshold and was lurking in the shadows beyond.
" What was that ? " Mr. Taunton asked, but Miss Gower could
not answer him .
For reply all he heard was old Deborah's wail of " Master,
master, oh ! my poor young lady," and then he rushed out into the
night, banging the heavy door behind.

CHAPTER XVI .

WIDE OF THE MARK.

THAT same evening Mr. Garland chancing-no unusual occurrence
for him to loiter into the bar of " The Three Fighting Cocks " while
the ostler was harnessing his mare, heard three pieces of intelligence.
First, a great London doctor had been down to see Mrs. Redworth; second, he and the local authority agreed that she could
never be better, and that she would not be much longer ill ; and
third, Dick Taunton had passed up the main street apparently either
mad or drunk.
Popular opinion inclined to adopt the former suggestion. Το
gentlemen in the very act of imbibing more than their better halves
consider good for them, a certain disagreeable personality seems to
attach even to the mildest form of inebriation.
" Ah ! poor fellow," said Mr. Purslet, " enough to drive him mad.
He was fond of his sister whatever his other faults ."
" And surely it was a bad job for her taking up with that Jack
Redworth," added a second.

" It is now said,"-whispered Mr. Purslet, but, at this juncture
the heads drew so close and the words of wisdom were spoken so
low, that no one outside the charmed circle could catch their sound.
But they meant something pitiful, so much was clear, since ”
Mr. Garland remarked, " Poor little lass ! and she motherless ;
and some one else observed, " That Miss Gower had alucky escape ;
and another remarked, " He never knew a father or a mother's
favourite turn out well. "
" Black Dick was well-nigh distraught," capped the fortunate
individual who had seen the owner of Taunton Hall; " they say he
broke away from the doctors when they told him the news, aud took
leave of his senses there and then. All I know for certain is, he
had no hat on when I met him . "
Hearing which, the collective wisdom of " The Fighting Cocks "
shook its head, and said " that looked very bad."
" Tell you what, gentlemen," remarked Mr. Garland, buttoning
up his coat and winding a muffle handkerchief round his neck
preparatory to wrestling with the night air, " as I go home I'll
take a look in at the Hall. Of late I have gone the other road, not
being, to tell you the truth, over and above partial to Saul's Corner ;
but duty is duty, and I could not sleep in my bed if I was to fail in
asking how it is faring with that poor sick lass, and with my
young lady, who has acted noble--I can't say more nor less-noble."
The first event which marked the progress of Mr. Garland's
homeward journey was a struggle between himself and the redoubtable mare after they crossed Cadlebury Bridge. He wanted to take
the road to Saul's Corner, and she wished to follow that
across Wilderness Heath. Upon the mare's mind (it at the time
having been perfectly clear) there was no doubt evidently as to the
reality of the vision she had one night beheld outstripping even her
speed across the stretch of common land, and she laid her ears flat
back and twisted her body into a semicircle, and pranced and
plunged, and absolutely refused to heed the bidding of either whip
or bit.
" I don't want to thrash you, and if I did I don't suppose it
would do much good," observed Mr. Garland out loud, as he put
his whip in its socket, and tied his reins to the dash-board, and
resignedly got down to lead the creature along the road he wished
her to go.
But she refused to travel it for leading either. She whinnied
and tossed her head and put her feet straight out, and lifted the
sides of her lips and showed all her teeth, and made, in fine, such a
trouble and disturbance, that Mr. Garland was fain at length to
leave her and his trap behind at a convenient smithy, and pursuehis
way to the Hall on foot.
He was passing the great gates when, perceiving they were
open, he turned up the front avenue, to save himself, as he afterwards stated, " a good few steps."
" Lor, what a dismal place it is," he thought, when he got well
under the shade of the trees, and beneath the gloom of the cedars,

TheDisappearance of Mr. Jeremiah Redworth. 93

and thought of old Marmaduke lying there all alone with never
another dead man near to keep him company. " I wonder if what
I saw that night was real eyesight or Scotch whiskey. I wonder
whether the place is uncanny, andRedworth will some day be found
hid away among those unwholesome shrubberies. Bless my soul !
what is that ? "
He might well ask. In the glimmering light he could just
discern a something clad all in white rushing towards him. Then
a cold hand touched his, and a wild hollow voice exclaimed,-
" Oh ! Dick, turn back, turn back ; she knows all ; she is telling
him-I always feared her she has put the puzzle together, I
crawled out of bed and listened and he he is in the house too
to-night. I saw him clearly, Dick, as I have so often seen him in
my dreams, with his poor broken arm and his ghastly face. He
came close up beside my pillow, and I-I- ”
He had her in his strong grasp even while she swayed and
tottered ; before she could fall he lifted her. This was no ghost, but
the lightest load of flesh and blood man ever carried.
On along the drive, past the darkly-silent windows-up the
steps-under the porch through the door standing so hospitably
open-into the great unlighted hall he bore his burden.
Arrived there he did not know which way to carry her, and
paused irresolute, till seeing a door in the distance standing ajar,
and hearing the sound of voices, he strode towards it. He was
about to enter the apartment when a sentence he heard stopped
him. It was this-
" God in heaven ! Hilda ! you don't mean to say you think
Imurdered my father ? "
" I do not think I am sure," was the answer, spoken in an
accent of shrill and vindictive triumph. " I am neither blind nor
deaf, John, and I know all the very good reasons you had for
wanting him out of the way. You were short of money, and he
had money about him. You were not aware of the tenor of his
will, and you fancied you would have your share to play with.
Do you think I am ignorant that when you went ostensibly on your
wedding tour, you travelled no further than London, where your
child was born two days after your marriage ? I know where that
child is buried. I have talked with the nurse who attended your
wife. I have heard Lettie raving about the dead man, and his broken
arm, and his dishevelled grey hair. You thought, no doubt, when
you deserted me for her, you did a fine thing, and that I would
sit down patiently under the slight, and never lift a finger to avenge
myself. But you were mistaken, John Redworth. I loved you
with all my heart ; and now I hate you with all my heart, and
I will never know one night's sound sleep till I see you in the
dock, on your trial for wilful murder."
"That is at least a pleasure I can deny you," said Richard
Taunton, mockingly, as, pushing open an inner door, he crossed the
room to where John Redworth and his accuser stood . " If there
were murder in question, I was the murderer. I am the man,

madam, and he you have accused is innocent of all knowledge, as he
is of any crime."
"Here's your wife, John Redworth," said Mr. Garland, at this
juncture pushing into the apartment, and, red and panting, carrying
the light figure as if it were some terrible weight. " I met her
down the avenue. Herself and One Above alone knows how
she managed to get there. She was flying to warn you, Squire,
not knowing that miss here had got on the wrong scent. And if
you'll be advised by me, you'll just forget what you said this
minute, and make a bolt for it. To my thinking there has been
mischief enough already; for all the justice and all the confessing in
the world won't bring the dead back to life. "
But his words were unheeded. Already John Redworth had
his wife in his arms, and was carrying her off to her own chamber.
Richard Taunton was alternately ringing the bell and imploring
Mr. Garland to go for the doctor, while Miss Gower remained
immovable, her eyes fastened on the wall opposite to the chair into
which she had dropped, repeating some sentences inaudible to the
two men, wildly waiting for something to happen, they scarce knew
what.
Suddenly, through the stillness of the house, there rang out a
terrible cry. It seemed to rend the stillness of the solemn night,
and cleave a way after the soul departed.
" Poor lass-poor young thing," said Mr. Garland, drawing the
back of his hand across his eyes. " She won't know trouble any
more-never any more."

CHAPTER XVII.
HOW IT HAPPENED .

Ar the smithy the mare stood waiting for her master til!, in
despair, the farrier put her up and went to bed himself.
It was blackest morning-a cold, bleak morning, with a biting
wind, before Mr. Garland reappeared to claim his refractory
quadruped, and then he was not alone.
Miss Gower stood beside him. She had played out her game,
and lost, and now she was going away from Taunton Hall, and the
dead woman, and her revenge, feeling herself beaten. She had
heard the whole story told. The mystery of Mr. Redworth's
disappearance was solved at last; but it no longer possessed the
slightest interest for her.
Driving over those dreary Wastes in the coldest hour in all the
twenty-four, the hour before dawn, she recalled the words of Richard
Taunton's confession as she might the sentences of some tale, with
which she had no manner of connection, read in the years gone by.
" You're shivering, miss ; keep the wraps well about you,
advised Mr. Garland, but his tone was no longer what it had
been.

As he drove, his thoughts were not with the vindictive hypocritical woman beside him, but with the sinner he had heard
confess his guilt-the " poor girl " knowledge of that guilt had
killed.
In half-a-dozen sentences Richard Taunton told his story.
" There's not much to tell," he had said, standing before the
three of them, his sister lying dead above, the murdered man's son
looking at him through eyes blinded with tears.
" Yes, he did come to the Hall that night," explained the Squire,
" but I was away from home. He came to the front door, through
which no one had been admitted since I locked it up after my
mother's funeral. Lettie happened to be at that side of the house,
outside, you understand, and saw him, and he said some bitter things
to her, that were true enough, no doubt, but hard for a woman to
bear.
" He did not stay long, and then she, low and out of spirits
before, on account of what had passed between you and her Jack,
down by the Canal side went into the house and cried till she could
cry no longer.
" Deborah, it appears, saw Mr. Redworth also, but I did not
know that till quite recently.
" It was late before I got to Saul's Corner that night. Coming
along, and singing a verse or two of a foolish song I had stopped
to hear at Trotterbeck bridge, it struck me all at once that I heard an
unusual sound, so I pulled up and listened. There was a feeble cry
of ' Help.' I could not see a thing, but I could distinguish that one
word, and horribly eerie it seemed to me, floating about in that
lonely place, with the dark pines to my left hand, and the desolute
heath stretching away to my right.
" Who calls ? I shouted out, and for answer there came the
merest whisper of a cry-
" Here, help.'
" It was some time before I could find him. He had tripped
up in one of those holes that abound on the common, and there he
was lying, with a broken arm, and something the matter with his
ribs, his head cut, and injuries in all directions. I put my flask to
his mouth, and tried to get him to walk, but he could not do it, so
I had to bring the trap up us close as I was able, and lift him
into it. Shall I go on ?
" I got him home," he proceeded, after John Redworth had
silently signified a wish for the story to be finished-got him home
and carried him into the house. Deb had gone to bed, and there
was no one up but Lettie. We did what we could for him, though
we felt almost frightened at having brought him to the Hall,
fearing if anything happened, the blame would be laid on us, after
the words he had spoken to Lettie ; but still we did help him-remember that, Jack; I am telling you the simple truth, Mr. Garland, and we went on doing what we could, till even Lettie began
to fear it was of no use, that he would die before sunrise.
" I don't know how it happened, but accidentally, in moving his

coat his pocket-book dropped out. I opened it, and saw the
money, and then the devil took possession of me.
" I had got notice, if I did not pay up the back interest on my
mortgages, the mortgagees would foreclose. I was at my wits' end,
and as I turned over the notes I thought of all those notes could do
for me, of the freedom they might compass .
" As I thought this I lifted up my eyes, and met his glance. It
dropped in a minute, but----must I finish. Can't you guess the
rest."
" I want to know how he died," said John Redworth with a
forced and terrible calmness .
" I had some laudanum in the cupboard, and I poured it down
his throat. Lettie was not in the room, she had gone out to make
him a cup of coffee, and when she came back he was dead, or
seemed dead, and there could be no return along the road I had
travelled. I made away with the body. I placed it, as I thought,
out of my own sight and the sight of all men for ever ; but I tell
you he has been at bed and at board with me ever since from that
night, he has sat opposite me at table, and walked with me through
thewoods. It killed Lettie. She was dying by inches when youturning to Miss Gower-came among us, but the pace quickened
after that, for she never imagined but you were following on the
right track, it never occurred to her you were trying to fasten the
crime on John. She has gone now, and no disgrace or grief of mine
can trouble her in the future, so do what you like. The words I have
spoken to-night I promise to repeat when and where you will. "
But both John Redworth and Mr. Garland shook their heads.
" The best thing you can do," said the farmer, " for the sake of
the living and the dead, is to let the mystery of Mr. Redworth's disappearance stay a mystery to the end ; and as for Miss here, I'll
just take her back with me presently. She will be better up at The
Wastes. I always said the air down here did not suit her, and I
say so still. If I could do anything for you, Mr. John, be sure and
let me know," he went on, turning to the younger man. " Is there
anything, think you, I can do for you now ? "
For answer John Redworth covered his face with his hands ;
what could any man do for him, or woman either ?
" Thank you," he said, after a moment's pause, " but you can do
nothing ; leave me alone, please, will you ? "
So they went away and left him alone with his grief. He had
had his life and he spoiled it. His chance had been given him and
he missed it ; in the joyous spring-time he had planted thistles, and
he could never now hope to gather figs.

THE END.
