TITLE: Sandy the Tinker
AUTHOR: Charlotte Riddell (Mrs. J. H. Riddell)
FIRST PUBLICATION YEAR: 1882
FORM: short fiction
SOURCE EDITION/CONTAINER: Weird Stories (1882)
SOURCE URL: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/21/Weird_Stories.pdf
SOURCE PDF PAGES EXTRACTED: 222-244
TEXT STATUS: Lightly cleaned machine OCR; not a corrected diplomatic transcription.
EDITORIAL NOTE: Check quotations, punctuation, proper names, and suspected OCR errors against the scan before scholarly quotation.

--- BEGIN OCR TEXT ---

" BEFORE commencing my story, I wish to
state it is perfectly true in every particular."

"We quite understand that," said the sceptic
of our party, who was wont, in the security of
friendly intercourse, to characterise all such
prefaces as mere introductions to some tremendous blank,' ' blank,' ' blank,' which trio the
reader can fill up at his own pleasure and
leisure .
On the occasion in question, however, we had
donned our best behaviour, a garment which did
not sit ungracefully on some of us ; and our
host, who was about to draw out from the
stores of memory one narrative for our entertainment, was scarcely the person before whom
even Jack Hill would have cared to express his
cynical and unbelieving views.
We were seated , an incongruous company
of ten persons, in the best room of an old
manse among the Scottish hills . Accident had

thrown us together, and accident had driven us
under the minister's hospitable roof. Cold, wet ,

and hungry, drenched with rain , sorely beaten
by the wind, we had crowded through the door
opened by a friendly hand, and now, wet no
longer, the pangs of hunger assuaged with
smoking rashers of ham , poached eggs, and
steaming potatoes, we sat around a blazing fire ,
drinking toddy out of tumblers , whilst the two
ladies who graced the assemblage partook of a
modicum of the same beverage from wine
glasses.
Everything was eminently comfortable, but
conducted upon the most correct principles . Jack
could no more have taken it upon him to shock
the minister's ear with some of the opinions he
aired in Fleet Street , than he could have asked
for more whisky with his water .
" Yes, it is perfectly true," continued the
minister, looking thoughtfully at the fire. "I
can't explain it, I cannot even try to explain it.
I will tell you the story exactly as it occurred ,
however, and leave you to draw your own
deductions from it."
None of us answered . We fell into listening
attitudes instantly, and eighteen eyes fixed
themselves by one accord upon our host.
He was an old man , but hale. The weight of
ighty winters had whitened his head , but not

bowed it. He seemed young as any of usyounger than Jack Hill, who was a reviewer

and a newspaper hack, and whose way through
life had not been altogether on easy lines .
" Thirty years ago, upon a certain Friday
morning in August," began the minister, “ I was
sitting at breakfast in the room on the other
side of the passage , where you ate your supper,
when the servant girl came in with a letter, she
said a laddie , all out of breath , had brought
over from Dendeldy Manse. He was bidden
rin a' the way,' she went on, and he's fairly
beaten."
" I told her to make the messenger sit down ,
and put food before him ; and then , when she
went to do my bidding, proceeded , I must confess with some curiosity, to break the seal of a
missive forwarded in such hot haste.

" It was from the minister at Dendeldy, who
had been newly chosen to occupy the pulpit
his deceased father occupied for a quarter of a
century and more.
"The call from the congregation originated
rather out of respect to the father's memory
than any extraordinary liking for the son. He
had been reared for the most part in England ,
and was somewhat distant and formal in his
manners ; and, though full of Greek and Latin
and Hebrew, wanted the true Scotch accent , that
P

goes straight to the heart of those accustomed
to the broad, honest , tender Scottish tongue .

" His people were proud of him, but they did
not just like all his ways . They could remember him a lad running about the whole country
side, and they could not understand, and did not
approve of, his holding them at arm's length ,
and shutting himself up among his books and
refusing their hospitality, and sending out word
he was busy when maybe some very decent man
wanted speech of him. I had taken upon myself to point out that I thought he was wrong,
and that he would alienate his flock from him .
Perhaps it was for this very reason, because I
was blunt and plain, he took to me kindly, and
never got on his high horse, no matter what I
said to him .
"Well, to return to the letter. It was written
in the wildest haste, and entreated me not to
Jose a moment in coming to him, as he was in the
very greatest distress and anxiety. Let nothing
delay you ,' he proceeded . ' If I cannot speak to
you soon I believe I shall go out of my senses .'
" What could be the matter ? ' I thought .
What in all the wide earth could have

happened ? '
"I had seen him but a few days before, and
he was in good health and spirits, getting on
better with his people, feeling hopeful of so

altering his style of preaching as to touch their
hearts more sensibly.
" I must lay aside Southern ideas as well as
accent, if I can,' he went on , smiling. Men
who live such lives of hardship and privation ,
who cast their seed into the ground under such
rigorous skies, and cut their corn in fear and
trembling at the end of late uncertain summers ,
who take the sheep out of the snow-drifts and
carry the lambs into shelter beside their own
humble hearths, must want a different sort of
sermon from those who sleep softly and walk
delicately.'
" I had implied something of all this myself,
and it amused me to find my own thoughts
come back clothed in different fashion and presented to me quite as strangers . Still, all I
wanted was his good , and I felt glad he showed
such aptitude to learn.
"What could have happened, however,

puzzled me sorely. As I made my hurried preparations for setting out I fairly perplexed
myself with speculation . I went into the
kitchen, where his messenger was eating some
breakfast, and asked him if Mr. Cawley was ill .
66 6
" I dinna ken ,' he answered . ' He mad'
no complaint, but he luiked awfu' bad, just
awfu'.'
" In what way ? ' I inquired.

" As if he had seen a ghaist,' was the
reply.
"This made me very uneasy, and I jumped to
the conclusion the trouble was connected with
money matters . Young men will be young

men ; " and here the minister looked significantly at the callow bird of our company , a
youth who had never owed a sixpence in his life
or given away a cent ; while Jack Hill -no
chicken , by the way-was over head and ears
in debt , and could not keep a sovereign in
his pocket , though spending or bestowing it,
involved going dinnerless the next day.
Young men will be young men ," repeated
the minister, in his best pulpit manner ("Just
as though any one expected them to be young
women ! " grumbled Jack to me afterwards ),
" and I feared that now he was settled and comfortably off, some old creditor he had been paying
as best he could, might have become pressing. I
knew nothing of his liabilities, or, beyond the
amount of the stipend paid him, the state of his
pecuniary affairs ; but, having once in my own life
made myself responsible for a debt , I was aware
of all the trouble putting your arm out further
than you can draw it back involves , and I considered that most probably money, which is the
root of all evil " (" and ail good," Jack's eyes suggested to me), " was the cause of my young

friend's agony of mind . Blessed with a large
family- every one of whom is now alive and
doing well , I thank God , out in the world - you
may imagine I had not much opportunity for
laying by ; still , I had put aside a little for a rainy
day, and that little I placed in my pocket-book,
hoping even a small sum might prove of use in
case of emergency.
"Come, you are a trump," I saw written
plainly on Jack Hill's face ; and he settled himself to listen to the remainder of the minister's
story in a manner which could not be considered
other than complimentary .
Duly and truly I knew quite well he had
already devoted the first five-guinea cheque
he received to the poor of that minister's
parish.
" By the road," proceeded our host, " Dendeldy
is distant from here ten long miles, but by a
short cut across the hills it can be reached in

something under six . For me it was nothing of
walk, and accordingly I arrived at the manse
erc noon ."

He paused, and, though thirty years had
clapsed, drew a handkerchief across his forehead
tre he continued his narrative .
" I had to climb a steep brae to reach the
front door, but ere I could breast it my friend
met me.

" Thank God you are come,' he said, pressing
my hand in his. Oh, I am grateful.'
" He was trembling with excitement. His
face was of a ghastly pallor. His voice was

that of a person suffering from some terrible
shock, labouring under some awful fear.
" What has happened, Edward ? ' I asked .
'I
I had known him when he was a little boy.
am distressed to see you in such a state. Rouse
yourself ; be a man ; whatever may have gone

wrong can possibly be righted. I have come
over to do all that lies in my power for you .
"
If it is a matter of money▬▬
" No, no ; it is not money,' he interrupted ;
'would that it were ! ' and he began to tremble
again so violently that really he communicated
some part of his nervousness to me, and put me
into a state of perfect terror .
" Whatever it is, Cawley, out with it,' I said
' have you murdered anybody ? '
" No, it is worse than that ,' he answered .
·
" But that's just nonsense,' I declared. Are
you in your right mind, do you think ? '
" I wish I were not,' he returned . ' I'd like
to know I was stark staring mad ; it would be
happier for me-far, far happier.'
" If you don't tell me this minute what
is the matter, I shall turn on my heel and
tramp my way home again,' I said, half in a

passion, for what I thought his folly angered
me.
" Come into the house,' he entreated , and
try to have patience with me ; for indeed , Mr.
Morison, I am sorely troubled . I have been
through my deep waters, and they have gone
clean over my head.'
"We went into his little study and sat down.
For a while he remained silent, his head resting
upon his hand, struggling with some strong
emotion ; but after about five minutes he asked ,
in a low subdued voice,
" Do you believe in dreams ? '
" What has my belief to do with the matter
in hand ? ' I inquired .
" It is a dream , an awful dream , that is
troubling me.'
" I rose from my chair.
" Do you mean to say,' I asked , ' you have
brought me from my business and my parish to
tell me you have had a bad dream ? '
" That is just what I do mean to say,' he
answered At least, it was not a dream -it
was a vision ; no , I don't mean a vision—

I can't tell you what it was ; but nothing I
ever went through in actual life was half so

real, and I have bound myself to go through
it all again. There is no hope for me, Mr.
Morison. I sit before you. a lost crcature , the

most miserable man on the face of the whole
carth.'

" What did you dream ? ' I inquired .
" A dreadful fit of trembling again scized
him ; but at last he managed to say,
" I have been like this ever since , and I shall
be like this for evermore, till- till-the end
comes .'

" When did you have your bad dream ? ' I
asked .
" Last night, or rather this morning,' he
answered. 6 I'll tell you all about it in a

minute ; ' and he covered his face with his
hands again .
" I was as well when I went to bed about
eleven o'clock as ever I was in my life , ' he began ,
putting a great restraint upon himself, as I could
see by the nervous way he kept knotting and
unknotting his fingers. " I had been considering
my sermon, and felt satisfied I should be able to

deliver a good one next Sunday morning. I had
taken nothing after my tea, and I lay down in
my bed feeling at peace with all mankind, satisfied with my lot, thankful for the many blessings
vouchsafed to me. How long I slept , or what I
dreamt about at first , if I dreamt at all , I don't
know ; but after a time the mists seemed to clear

from before my eyes, to roll away like clouds
from a mountain summit , and I found myself

walking on a beautiful summer's evening beside
the river Deldy .'
"He paused for a moment, and an irrepressible shudder shook his frame.
" Go on,' I said , for I felt afraid of his breaking down again.
" He looked at me pitifully, with a hungry
entreaty in his weary eyes, and continued,
" It was a lovely evening. I had never thought
the earth so beautiful before : a gentle breeze
just touched my cheek ; the water flowed on clear
and bright ; the mountains in the distance looked
bright and glowing, covered with purple heather.
I walked on and on , till I came to that point
where, as you may perhaps remember, the path,
growing very narrow, winds round the base of a
great crag, and leads the wayfarer suddenly into
a little green amphitheatre, bounded on one side
by the river, and on the other by rocks, that rise
in places sheer to a height of a hundred feet
and more.'
"I remember it," I said ; " a little farther on
three streams meet and fall with a tremendous
roar into the Witches' Caldron. A fine sight in
the winter-time, only that there is scarce any
reaching it from below, as the path you mention
and the little green oasis are mostly covered
with water."
" I had not been there before since I was a

child ," he went on, mournfully, "but I recollected
it as one of the most solitary spots possible ; and
my astonishment was great, to see a man standing in the pathway, with a drawn sword in his
hand . He did not stir as I drew near, so I stepped aside on the grass . Instantly he barred my
way.
" You can't pass here,' he said.
" Why not ? ' I asked .
" Because I say so,' he answered .
" And who are you that say so ? ' I inquired, looking full at him .
" He was like a god . Majesty and power
were written on every feature, were expressed
in every gesture ; but O , the awful scorn of his
smile, the contempt with which he regarded
me ! The beams of the setting sun fell full
upon him, and seemed to bring out, as in letters
of fire, the wickedness and hate and sin , that
underlay the glorious and terrible beauty of his
face .
" I felt afraid ; but I managed to say-
" Stand out of my way ; the river-brink is
as free to me as to you.'
" Not this part of it,' he answered ; ' this
place belongs to me .'
" Very well,' I agreed, for I did not want
to stand there bandying words with him,
and a sudden darkness seemed to be falling

around. ' It is getting late, and so I'll e'en
turn back .'
"He gave a laugh, the like of which never
fell on human ear before, and made reply,
" You can't turn back ; of your own free
will you have come on my ground, and from
it there is no return .'
" I did not speak ; I only just turned round,
and made as fast as I could for the
path at the foot of the crag. He did not

pass me, yet before I could reach the point I
desired he stood barring my progress, with the
scornful smile still on his lips , and his gigantic
form assuming tremendous proportions in the
narrow way.
"
" Let me pass,' I entreated, and I will
never come here again, never trespass more
on your ground .'
No, you shall not pass .'
" Who are you that takes such power on
yourself? ' I asked .
" Come closer, and I will tell you ,' he said.
" I drew a step nearer, and he spoke one
word. I had never heard it before, but, by some
extraordinary intuition, I knew what it meant.
He was the Evil One ; the name seemed to be
taken up by the echoes, and repeated from
rock to rock and crag to crag ; the whole air
seemed full of that one word ; and then a

great horror of darkness came about us, only
the place where we stood remained light. We
occupied a small circle walled round with the
thick blackness of night .
" You must come with me,' he said.
"I refused ; and then he threatened me. I

implored and entreated and wept ; but at last
I agreed to do what he wanted if he would
promise to let me return . Again he laughed,
and said, Yes, I should return ; and the rocks
and trees and mountains, ay, and the very
rivers, seemed to take up the answer, and bear
it in sobbing whispers away into the darkness. "
" He stopped, and lay back in his chair, shivering like one in an ague fit.
" Go on,"" I repeated again ; "'twas but a
dream, you know."
"Was it ?" he murmured , mournfully . " Ah,
you have not heard the end of it yet."
"Let me hear it, then," I said . " What
happened afterwards ? "
"The darkness seemed in part to clear away,
and we walked side by side across the sward
in the tender twilight, straight up to the bare
black wall of rock . With the hilt of his sword
he struck a heavy blow, and the solid rock
opened as though it were a door . We passed
through, and it closed behind us with a tre
mendous clang ; yes, it closed behind us ;

and at that point he fairly broke down, crying
and sobbing as I had never seen a man even
in the most frightful grief cry and sob before.
The minister paused in his narrative . At
that moment there came a most tremendous
blast of wind , which shook the windows of
the manse, and burst open the hall-door , and
caused the candles to flicker and the fire to

go roaring up the chimney. It is not too
much to say that, what with the uncanny story,
and what with the howling storm, we every

one felt that creeping sort of uneasiness which
so often seems like the touch of something
from another world- a hand stretched across

the boundary-line of time and eternity, the
coldness and mystery of which make the
stoutest heart tremble.

I am telling you this tale," said Mr. Morison, resuming his seat after a brief absence
to see that the fastenings of the house were
properly attended to, " exactly as I heard it.
I am not adding a word or comment of my
own, nor, so far as I know, am I omitting any
incident, however trivial. You must draw

your own deductions from the facts I put
before you . I have no explanation to give
or theory to propound . Part of that great
and terrible region in which he found himself,
my friend went on to tell me, he penetrated ,

compelled by a power he could not resist to
see the most awful sights, the most frightful
sufferings. There was no form of vice that
had not there its representative . As they
moved along his companion told him the special
sin for which such horrible punishment was
being inflicted. Shuddering , and in mortal
agony, he was yet unable to withdraw his
eyes from the dreadful spectacle ; the atmosphere grew more unendurable , the sights
more and more terrible ; the cries, groans,
blasphemies , more awful and heart - rending.
" I can bear no more," he gasped at last ;
""
" let me go !↑
'With a mocking laugh, the Presence beside.
him answered this appeal ; a laugh which was
taken up, even by the lost and anguished spirits
around.
" There is no
no return,'
return," said the pitiless
voice.

" But you promised ," he cried ; " you promised me faithfully."
" What are promises here ? " and the words.
were as the sound of doom .

' Still he prayed and entreated ; he fell on his
knees , and in his agony, spoke words that
seemed to cause the purpose of the Evil One to
falter.

" You shall go," he said, " on one condition :

that you agree to return to me on Wednesday
next, or send a substitute ."
"I could not do that," said my friend. 66 I

could not send any fellow- creature here . Better
stop myself than do that."
" Then stop ," said Satan, with the bitterest
contempt ; and he was turning away, when the
poor distracted soul asked for a minute more
ere he made his choice .
" He was in an awful strait : on the one hand ,
how could he remain himself? on the other,
how doom another to such fearful torments ?
Who could he send ? Who would come ? And
then suddenly there flashed through his mind
the thought of an old man to whom it could
not signify much whether he took up his abode
in this place a few days sooner or a few days
later. He was travelling to it as fast as he
knew how ; he was the reprobate of the parish ;
the sinner without hope successive ministers
had striven in vain to reclaim from the error of
his ways ; a man marked and doomed- Sandy
the Tinker ; Sandy, who was mostly drunk,
and always godless ; Sandy, who, it was said ,
believed in nothing, and gloried in his infidelity ;
Sandy, whose soul really did not signify much .
He would send him . Lifting his eyes, he saw
those of his tormentor surveying him scornfully.

"Well, have you made your choice ? " he
asked.
" Yes ; I think I can send a substitute,' was
the hesitating answer.
" See you do, then ,' was the reply ;
for
if you do not, and fail to return yourself, I shall

come for you. Wednesday, remember, before
midnight ; ' and with these words ringing in his
cars he was flung violently through the rock,
and found himself in the middle of his bedroom floor, as if he had just been kicked there."
" That is not the end of the story, is it ? "
asked one of our party, as the minister came to
a full stop, and looked earnestly at the fire .
No," he answered , " it is not the end ; but
before proceeding I must ask you to bear carefully in mind the circumstances already recounted . Specially remember the date men-
—
tioned Wednesday next, before midnight.
" Whatever I thought , and you may think ,
about my friend's dream, it made the most
remarkable impression upon his mind. Не
could not shake off its influence ; he passed
from one state of nervousness to another. It
was in vain I entreated him to exert his

common sense, and call all his strength of
mind to his assistance. I might as well have
spoken to the wind . He implored me not to
leave him, and I agreed to remain ; indecd ,

to leave him in his then frame of mind would
have been an act of the greatest cruelty. He
wanted me also to preach in his place on the
Sunday ensuing ; but this I flatly refused.
" If you do not make an effort now,' I said ,
' you will never make it . Rouse yourself, get
on with your sermon, and if you buckle to
work you will soon forget all about that
foolish dream .'

"Well, to cut a long story short, the sermon
was somehow composed and Sunday came,
and my friend, a little better and getting over
his fret, walked up into the pulpit to preach . He
looked dreadfully ill ; but I thought the worst
was now over, and that he would go on
mending.
"Vain hope ! He gave out the text and then
looked over the congregation : the first person
on whom his eyes lighted was Sandy the Tinker
-Sandy, who had never before been known to
enter a place of worship of any sort ; Sandy,
whom he had mentally chosen as his substitute, and who was due on the following

Wednesday - sitting just below him , quite
sober, and comparatively clean, waiting with
a great show of attention for the opening
words of the sermon .

"With a terrible cry, my friend caught the
front of the pulpit, then swayed back and fell

down in a fainting fit. He was carried home
and a doctor sent for. I said a few words,
addressed apparently to the congregation, but
really to Sandy, for my heart, somehow, came
into my mouth at sight of him ; and then ,
after I had dismissed the people, I paced

slowly back to the manse, almost afraid of
what might meet me there .
"Mr. Cawley was not dead ; but he was in
the most dreadful state of physical exhaustion
and mental agitation. It was dreadful to hear
him . How could he go himself ? How could
he send Sandy ? -poor old Sandy, whose soul ,
in the sight of God, was just as precious as
his own .

" His whole cry was for us to deliver him
from the Evil One ; to save him from committing a sin which would render him a
wretched man for life . He counted the
hours and the minutes before he must return
to that horrible place.
666 'I
" I can't send Sandy,' he would moan.
cannot, O, I cannot save myself at such a price !
" And then he would cover his face with the
bedclothes, only to start up and wildly entreat
me not to leave him ; to stand between the
enemy and himself, to save him , or , if that
were impossible, to give him courage to do
what was right.

66.If this continues ,' said the doctor,
' Wednesday will find him either dead or a
raving lunatic .'
"We talked the matter over, the doctor and I,
in the gloaming, as we walked to and fro in the
meadow behind the manse ; and we decided ,
having to make our choice of two evils ,
to risk giving him such an opiate as should
carry him over the dreaded interval. We
knew it was a perilous thing to do with one
in his condition, but, as I said before, we could
only take the least of two evils.
"What we dreaded most was his awaking
before the time expired ; so I kept watch
beside him. He lay like one dead through the
whole of Tuesday night and Wednesday, and
Wednesday evening . Eight, nine, ten , eleven
o'clock came and passed ; twelve. ' God be
thanked ! ' I said, as I stooped over him and
heard he was breathing quietly.
" He will do now, I hope, ' said the doctor,
who had come in just before midnight ; ' you
will stay with him till he wakes ? '
"I promised that I would , and in the beautiful.
dawn of a summer's morning he opened his eyes
and smiled . He had no recollection then of what
had occurred ; he was as weak as an infant, and
when I bade him try to go to sleep again, turned
on his pillow and sank to rest once more.

Q 2

"Worn out with watching, I stepped softly
from the room and passed into the fresh sweet
air. I strolled down to the garden-gate , and
stood looking at the great mountains and the
fair country, and the Deldy wandering like a
silver thread through the green fields below.
" All at once my attention was attracted
by a group of people coming slowly along the
road leading from the hills. I could not at
first see that in their midst something was
being borne on men's shoulders ; but when at
last I made this out, I hurried to meet them
and learn what was the matter.
" Has there been an accident ? ' I asked, as
I drew near .
They stopped, and one man came towards.
me.
666 accident that
Ay,' he said, the warst
could befa ' him, puir fella' . He's deid .'
" Who is it ? ' I asked , pressing forward ;
and lifting the cloth they had flung over his
face, I saw Sandy the Tinker !
" He had been fou ' coming home, I tak' it,'
remarked one who stood by ; ' puir Sandy, and
gaed over the cliff afore he could save himsel'.
We found him just on this side of the Witches'
Caldron, where there's a bonny strip of green
turf, and his cuddy was feeding on the hill-top
with the bit cart behind her.'"

There was silence for a minute ; then one of
the ladies said softly, " Poor Sandy ! "
"And what became of Mr. Cawley ? " asked
the other.
" He gave up his parish and went abroad
as a missionary. He is still living. "
" What a most extraordinary story ! " I
remarked.
66 " If
'Yes, I think so," said the minister.
you like to go round by Dendeldy to-morrow,
my son, who now occupies the manse, would
show you the scene of the occurrence. ”

The next day we all stood looking at the
"bonny strip of green," at the frowning
cliffs, and at the Deldy, swollen by recent rains,
rushing on its way.
The youngest of the party went up to the
rock, and knocked upon it loudly with his
cane .
" O, don't do that, pray ! " cried both the
ladies, nervously ; the spirit of the weird story
still brooded over us .

"What do you think of the coincidence ,
Jack ? " I inquired of my friend, as we talked
apart from the others .
" Ask me when we get back to Fleet Street,"
he answered.
