TITLE: Nut-Bush Farm
AUTHOR: Charlotte Riddell (Mrs. J. H. Riddell)
FIRST PUBLICATION YEAR: 1882
FORM: short fiction
SOURCE EDITION/CONTAINER: Weird Stories (1882)
SOURCE URL: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/21/Weird_Stories.pdf
SOURCE PDF PAGES EXTRACTED: 119-189
TEXT STATUS: Lightly cleaned machine OCR; not a corrected diplomatic transcription.
EDITORIAL NOTE: Check quotations, punctuation, proper names, and suspected OCR errors against the scan before scholarly quotation.

--- BEGIN OCR TEXT ---

CHAPTER I.

WHEN I entered upon the tenancy of Nut
Bush Farm almost the first piece of
news which met me, in the shape of a whispered
rumour, was that " something " had been seen
in the " long field . ”
Pressed closely as to what he meant, my
informant reluctantly stated that the " something " took the " form of a man," and that the
wood and the path leading thereto from
Whittleby were supposed to be haunted .
Now, all this annoyed me exceedingly. I do
not know when I was more put out than by the
intelligence . It is unnecessary to say I did not
believe in ghosts or anything of that kind , but
my wife being a very nervous, impressionable
woman, and our only child, a delicate weakling,
in the habit of crying himself into fits if left
alone at night without a candle, I really felt at
my wit's end to imagine what I should do if a
story of this sort reached their ears.

And reach them I knew it must if they came
to Nut Bush Farm, so the first thing I did when
I heard people did not care to venture down the
Beech Walk or through the copse , or across the
long field after dark, or indeed by day, was to
write to say I thought they had both better
remain on at my father-in-law's till I could get
the house thoroughly to rights.
After that I lit my pipe and went out for a
stroll ; when I knocked the ashes out of my
pipe and re-entered the sitting room I had made
up my mind. I could not afford to be frightened
away from my tenancy. For weal or for woe I
must stick to Nut Bush Farm .

It was quite by chance I happened to know
anything of the place at first . When I met
with that accident in my employers ' service,
which they rated far too highly and recompensed with a liberality I never can feel sufficiently grateful for, the doctors told me plainly
if I could not give up office work and leave
London altogether, they would not give a
year's purchase for my life .
Life seemed very sweet to me then- it
always has done-but just at that period I felt
the pleasant hopes of convalescence , and with
that thousand pounds safely banked , I could not
let it slip away from me.
" Take a farm," advised my father-in-law,

" though people say a farmer's is a bad trade,
I know many a man who is making money out
of it. Take a farm , and if you want a helping
hand to enable you to stand the racket for a
year or two, why you know I am always
ready."
I had been bred and born on a farm. My
father held something like fifteen hundred acres.
under the principal landowner in his county,
and though it so happened , I could not content
myself at home, but must needs come up to
London to see the lions and seek my fortune,
still I had never forgotten the meadows and
the cornfields, and the cattle, and the orchards ,
and the woods and the streams , amongst which
my happy boyhood had been spent. Yes, I
thought I should like a farm -one not too far
from London ; and " not too big," advised my
wife's father.

" The error people make now-a-days, " he
went on, " is spreading their butter over too
large a surface . It is the same in business as
in land-they stretch their arms out too far-they will try to wade in deep waters - and the
consequence is they never know a day's peace,
and end mostly in the bankruptcy court. "
He spoke as one having authority, and I
knew what he said was quite right. He had
made his money by a very different course of

procedure, and I felt I could not follow a
better example .
I knew something about farming, though not
very much. Still, agriculture is like arithmetic,
when once one knows the multiplication table
the rest is not so difficult. I had learned

unconsciously the alphabet of soils and crops
and stock when I was an idle young dog, and
liked nothing better than talking to the
labourers, and accompanying the woodman
when he went out felling trees ; and so I did
not feel much afraid of what the result would
be, more especially as I had a good business
head on my shoulders, and enough money to
" stand the racket," as my father-in-law put
it, till the land began to bring in her increase.
When I got strong and well again after my
long illness -I mean strong and well enough to
go about-I went down to look at a farm which
was advertised as to let in Kent.
According to the statement in the newspaper ,
there was no charm that farm lacked ; when I
saw it I discovered the place did not possess
one virtue, unless, indeed, an old Tudor house
fast falling to ruins, which would have proved
invaluable to an artist, could be so considered.
Far from a railway, having no advantages of
water carriage, remote from a market, apparently destitute of society. Nor could these

drawbacks be accounted the worst against it.
The land, poor originally, scemed to have been
totally exhausted . There were fields on which
I do not think a goose could have found subsistence -nothing grew luxuriantly save wcels ;
it would have taken all my capital to get the
ground clean. Then I saw the fences were
dilapidated, the hedges in a deplorable condition, and the farm buildings in such a state of
decay I would not have stabled a donkey in
one of them.

Clearly, the King's Manor, which was the
modest name of the place, would not do at
any price, and yet I felt sorry , for the country
around was beautiful, and already the sweet
pure air seemed to have braced up my nerves
and given me fresh energy. Talking to mine
host at the Bunch of Hops," in Whittleby, he
advised me to look over the local paper before
returning to London .
“ There be a many farms vacant," he said ,
mayhap you'll light on one to suit."
To cut a long story short, I did look in the
local paper and found many farms to let, but
not one to suit. There was a drawback to each
-a drawback at least so far as I was concerned .
I felt determined I would not take a large farm
My conviction was then what my conviction
still remains, that it is better to cultivate fifty

acres thoroughly, than to crop, stock, clean, and
manure a hundred insufficiently. Besides , I did
not want to spend my strength on wages, or
take a place so large I could not oversee the
workmen on foot. For all these reasons and
many more I came reluctantly to the conclusion
that there was nothing in that part of the
country to suit a poor unspeculative plodder
like myself.
It was a lovely afternoon in May when I
turned my face towards Whittleby , as I thought,
for the last time.
In the morning I had taken
train for a farm some ten miles distant and
worked my way back on foot to a " small
cottage with land " a local agent thought might
suit me . But neither the big place nor the

little answered my requirements, much to the
disgust of the auctioneer, who had himself
accompanied us to the cottage under the
impression I would immediately purchase it
and so secure his commission.

Somewhat sulkily he told me a short cut
back to Whittleby, and added as a sort of rider
to all previous statements, the remark :
" You had best look out for what you want
in Middlesex . You'll find nothing of that sort
hereabouts."

As to the last part of the foregoing sentence
I was quite of his opinion , but I felt so

oppressed with the result of all my wanderings
that I thought upon the whole I had better
abandon my search altogether, or else pursue it
in some county very far away indeed- perhaps
in the land of dreams for that matter !
As has been said , it was a lovely afternoon in
May-the hedges were snowy with hawthorn
blossom, the chesnuts were bursting into flower,
the birds were singing fit to split their little.
throats, the lambs were dotting the hillsides,
and I-ah ! well, I was a boy again, able to
relish all the rich banquet God spreads out day
by day for the delight and nourishment of His
too often thankless children .
When I came to a point half way up some
rising ground where four lanes met and then
wound off each on some picturesque diverse
way, I paused to look around regretfully.
As I did so -some distance below me- along
a long and never-before-traversed lane, I saw
the gleam of white letters on a black board.
" Come," I thought, " I'll see what this is at
all events," and bent my steps towards the
place, which might, for all I knew about it,
have been a ducal mansion or a cockney's
country villa.
The board appeared modestly conspicuous in
the foreground of a young fir plantation , and
simply bore this legend-

NUT BUSH FARM. III

" TO BE LET, HOUSE AND LAND,”
Apply at the " White Dragon."
" It is a mansion," I thought, and I walked
on slowly, disappointed.
All of a sudden the road turned a sharp
corner and I came in an instant upon the
prettiest place I had ever seen or ever desire
to see.
I looked at it over a low laurel hedge growing inside an open paling about four feet high .
Beyond the hedge there was a strip of turf,
green as emeralds, smooth as a bowling greenthen came a sunk fence, the most picturesque
sort of protection the ingenuity of man ever
devised ; beyond that, a close-cut lawn which
sloped down to the sunk fence from a house
with projecting gables in the front, the recessed
portion of the building having three windows
on the first floor. Both gables were covered

with creepers, the lawn was girt in by a semicircular sweep of forest trees , the afternoon sun

streamed over the grass and tinted the swaying
foliage with a thousand tender lights . Hawthorn bushes, pink and white, mingled with
their taller and grander brothers . The chesnuts
here were in flower, the copper beech made a
delightful contrast of colour, and a birch rose
delicate and graceful close beside .
It was like a fairy scene. I passed my hand

across my eyes to assure myself it was all real
Then I thought " if this place be even nearly
within my means I will settle here. My wife
will grow stronger in this paradise - my boy get
more like other lads. Such things as nerves
must be unknown where there is not a sight or
sound to excite them. Nothing but health ,
purity, and peace."
Thus thinking , I tore myself away in search
of the " White Dragon," the landlord of which
small public sent a lad to show me over the
farm .

" As for the rent," he said , " you will have to
speak to Miss Gostock herself-she lives at
Chalmont, on the road between here and

Whittleby."
In every respect the place suited me ; it was
large enough, but not too large ; had been well
farmed, and was amply supplied with water- a
stream indeed flowing through it ; a station was
shortly to be opened, at about half-a-mile's
distance ; and most of the produce could be
disposed of to dealers and tradesmen at
to
Crayshill, a town to which the communication
by rail was direct.
I felt so anxious about the matter, it was
quite a disappointment to find Miss Gostock
from home. Judging from the look of her
house, I did not suppose she could afford to

stick out for a long rent, or to let a farm lie idle
for any considerable period . The servant who
appeared in answer to my summons was a singularly red armed and rough handed Phyllis.
There was only a strip of carpeting laid down
in the hall, the windows were bare of draperies,
and the avenue gate, set a little back from the
main road, was such as I should have felt
ashamed to put in a farm yard.
Next morning I betook myself to Chalmont,
anxiously wondering as I walked along what
the result of my interview would prove.
When I neared the gate, to which uncomplimentary reference has already been made, I saw
standing on the other side a figure, wearing a
man's broad-brimmed straw hat, a man's coat,
and a woman's skirt.

I raised my hat in deference to the supposed
sex of this stranger. She put up one finger
to the brim of hers, and said " Servant, Sir."
Not knowing exactly what to do I laid my
hand upon the latch of the gate and raised it ,
but she did not alter her position in the least .
She only asked-" What do you want ? "
"I want to see Miss Gostock," was my answer.
" I am Miss Gostock," she said ; " what is
your business with me ? "
I replied meekly that I had come to ask the
rent of Nut Bush Farm .

" Have you viewed it ? " she enquired
" Yes. " I told her I had been over the place on
the previous afternoon .
" And have you a mind to take it ? " she
persisted " for I am not going to trouble
myself answering a lot of idle enquiries."
So far from my being an idle enquirer, I
assured the lady that if we could come to terms
about the rent, I should be very glad indeed to
take the farm . I said I had been searching the
neighbourhood within a circuit of ten miles for
some time unsuccessfully, and added , somewhat
unguardedly, I suppose, Nut Bush Farm was
the only place I had met with which at all met
my views.

Standing in an easy attitude, with one arm
resting on the top bar of the gate and one foot
crossed over the other, Miss Gostock surveyed
me, who had unconsciously taken up a similar
position, with an amused smile.
" You must think me a very honest person,
young man," she remarked .

I answered that I hoped she was , but I had
not thought at all about the matter.
"Or else," proceeded this extraordinary lady,
" you fancy I am a much greater flat than I
am."
" On the contrary," was my reply. " If there
be one impression stronger than another which

our short interview has made upon me it is that
you are a wonderfully direct and capable
woman of business ."

She looked at me steadily, and then closed
one eye, which performance, done under the
canopy of that broad-brimmed straw hat , had
the most ludicrous effect imaginable.
"You won't catch me napping," she observed,
" but, however, as you seem to mean dealing,
come in ; I can tell you my terms in two
minutes," and opening the gate -a trouble she
would not allow me to take off her hands- she
gave me admission.
Then Miss Gostock took off her hat, and
swinging it to and fro began slowly walking up
the ascent leading to Chalmont , I beside her.
" I have quite made up my mind ,” she said ,
"not to let the farm again without a premium ;
my last tenant treated me abominably——”
I intimated I was sorry to hear that, and
waited for further information .
" He had the place at a low rent - a very low

He should not have got it so cheap but
for his covenanting to put so much money in
the soil ; and well-I'm bound to say he acted
fair so far as that he fulfilled that part of his
contract. Nearly two years ago we had a bit of
a quarrel about-well it's no matter what we
fell out over- only the upshot of the affair was

he gave me due notice to leave at last winter
quarter. At that time he owed about a year
and a-half's rent-for he was a man who never

could bear parting with money- and like a
fool I did not push him for it. What trick do
you suppose he served me for my pains ? "
It was simply impossible for me to guess, so
I did not try.
" On the twentieth of December," went on
Miss Gostock, turning her broad face and curly
grey head-she wore her hair short like a man
-towards me, " he went over to Whittleby,
drew five thousand pounds out of the bank,
was afterwards met going towards home by a
gentleman named Waite, a friend of his. Since
then he has never been seen nor heard of."

"Bless my soul," I exclaimed involuntarily.
" You may be very sure I did not bless his
soul," she snarled out angrily. " The man
" The
bolted with the five thousand pounds, having
previously sold off all his stock and the bulk of
his produce, and when I distrained for my rent,
which I did pretty smart, I can tell you , there
was scarce enough on the premises to pay the
levy."
" But what in the world made him bolt ? " I
asked, quite unconsciously adopting Miss Gostock's expressive phrase ; " as he had so much
money, why did he not pay you your rent ?'

" Ah ! why, indeed ," mocked Miss Gostock.
" Young sir, I am afraid you are a bit of a humbug, or you would have suggested at once there
was a pretty girl at the bottom of the affair.
He left his wife and children , and me -all in
the lurch-and went off with a slip of a girl ,
whom I once took, thinking to train up as a
better sort of servant, but was forced to discharge. Oh, the little hussey ! "
" Hussey" is not exactly an elegant word
to hear used by a lady, but that employed
by Miss Gostock was in one syllable and less
refined still. Her Saxon was very nervous, and
she was not a bit above helping her meaning
out occasionally by an oath that would have
delighted Queen Bess, and a vigorous cxpression which might have won her virgin
Majesty's approval by its coarseness .
Somehow I did not fancy I wanted to hear
anything more about her late tenant and the
pretty girl, and consequently ventured to inquire how that gentleman's defalcations bore
upon the question of the rent I should have
to pay .

" I'll tell you directly," she said, and as we
had by this time arrived at the house, she
invited me to enter, and led the way into an
old-fashioned parlour that must have been furnished about the time chairs and tables were

first invented and which did not contain a

single feminine belonging -not even a thimble.
" Sit down," she commanded, and I sat . " I

have quite made up my mind," she began, " not
to let the farm again, unless I get a premium
sufficient to insure me against the chances of
possible loss . I mean to ask a very low rent
and -a premium. "
" And what amount of premium do you expect ? " I inquired , doubtfully.
" I want ,” and here Miss Gostock named
a sum which fairly took my breath away.
" In that case ," I said as soon as I got it
again, " it is useless to prolong this interview ; I
can only express my regret for having intruded,
and wish you good morning," and rising I was
bowing myself out when she stopped me.
" Don't be so fast," she cried, " I only said
what I wanted . Now what are you prepared to
give ? "
"I can't be buyer and seller too ," I answered,
repeating a phrase the precise meaning of
which , it may here be confessed , I have never
been able exactly to understand.
" Nonsense," exclaimed Miss Gostock-I am

really afraid the lady used a stronger term-
"if you are anything of a man of business,
fit at all to commence farming, you must have
an idea on the subject. You shall have the

land at a pound an acre, and you will give
me for premium- come, how much ? "
By what mental process I instantly jumped to
an amount it would be impossible to say, but I
did mention one which elicited from Miss Gostock the remark-
" That won't do at any price."
Very well then ,” I said , " we need not talk
any more about the matter."
" But what will you give ? " asked the lady.
""
"I have told you , was my answer, " and I
am not given either to haggling or beating
down."

" You won't make a good farmer," she
observed .
" If a farmer's time were of any value, which
it generally seems as if it were not," I answered ,
"he would not waste it in splitting a sixpence."
She laughed, and her laugh was not musical.
" Come now," she said, " make another bid ."
" No ," I replied , " I have made one and that
is enough. I won't offer another penny."
" Done then," cried Miss Gostock, " I accept
your offer- we'll just sign a little memorandum
of agreement, and the formal deeds can be
prepared afterwards. You'll pay a deposit, I
suppose ? "
I was so totally taken aback by her acceptance of my offer I could only stammer out I

was willing to do anything that might be
usual.
" It does not matter much whether it is usual
or not," she said, " either pay it or I won't keep
the place for you. I am not going to have my
land lying idle and my time taken up for your
pleasure."
"I have no objection to pay you a deposit,"
I answered.

" That's right," she exclaimed , " now if you
will just hand me over the writing-desk we can
settle the matter, so far as those thieves of
lawyers will let us, in five minutes ."
Like one in a dream I sat and watched Miss

Gostock while she wrote . Nothing about the
transaction seemed to me real. The farm itself
resembled nothing I had ever before seen with
my waking eyes, and Miss Gostock appeared to
me but as some monstrous figure in a story of
giants and hobgoblins. The man's coat, the
woman's skirt, the hob-nailed shoes, the grisly
hair, the old straw hat, the bare, unfurnished
room, the bright sunshine outside, all struck ine
as mere accessories in a play-as nothing which
had any hold on the outside every-day world.
It was drawn - we signed our names. I
handed Miss Gostock over a cheque. She
locked one document in an iron box let into the

wall, and handed me the other, adding, as a

rider, a word of caution about " keeping it safe
and taking care it was not lost."
Then she went to a corner cupboard , and
producing a square decanter half full of spirits ,
set that and two tumblers on the table .
" You don't like much water, I suppose," she
said, pouring out a measure which frightened
me.
" I could not touch it, thank you , Miss
Gostock," I exclaimed ; " I dare not do so ; I
should never get back to Whittleby."
For answer she only looked at me contemptuously and said , " D-d nonsense."
" No nonsense, indeed," I persisted ; " I am
not accustomed to anything of that sort."
Miss Gostock laughed again , then crossing to
the sideboard she returned with a jug of water,
a very small portion of the contents of which
she mixed with the stronger liquor and raised
to her lips.

"To your good health and prosperity," she
said, and in one instant the fiery potion was
swallowed.
" You'll mend of all that," she remarked, as
she laid down her glass, and wiped her lips in
the simplest manner by passing the back of her
hand over them.

" I hope not, Miss Gostock," I ventured to
observe.

Why you look quite shocked, " she said ;
"did you never see a lady take a mouthful
of brandy before ? "
I ventured to hint that I had not , more

particularly so early in the morning.
" Pooh ! " she said. "Early in the morning or late at night, where's the difference ?
However, there was a time when I-but that
was before I had come through so much
trouble . Good-bye for the present, and I hope
we shall get on well together."
I answered I trusted we should, and was
half-way to the hall-door, when she called
me back.

" I forgot to ask you if you were married ,"
she said .
"Yes, I have been married some years,"
I answered.

" That's a pity," she remarked, and dismissed me with a wave of her hand .
“ What on earth would have happened had
I not been married ," I considered , as I hurried
down the drive . " Surely she never contemplated proposing for me herself? But nothing she could do would surprise me.

CHAPTER II.

HERE were some repairs I had mentioned
THE
it would be necessary to have executed
before I came to live at Nut Bush Farm , but
when I found Miss Gostock intended to do

them herself-nay, was doing them all herself-
I felt thunderstruck .
On one memorable occasion I came upon
her with a red handkerchief tied round her
head, standing at a carpenter's bench in a
stable yard, planing away, under a sun which
would have killed anybody but a negro or
my landlady.
She painted the gates, and put sash lines
in some of the windows ; she took off the
locks, oiled , and replaced them ; she mowed
the lawn, and offered to teach me how to
mow ; and she
lastly, she showed me a book
where she charged herself and paid herself
for every hour's work done.
" I've made at least twenty pounds out of
your place," she said, triumphantly. " Higgs
at Whittleby would not have charged me a
half-penny less for the repairs. The tradesmen here won't give me a contract-they say
it is just time thrown away, but I know that
would have been about his figure. Well , the
place is ready for you now, and if you take

my advice , you'll get your grass up as soon
as possible. It's a splendid crop, and if you
hire hands enough, not a drop of rain need
spoil it. If this weather stands you might
cut one day and carry the next.”
I took her advice, and stacked my hay in
magnificent condition . Miss Gostock was good
enough to come over and superintend the
building of the stack, and threatened to split
one man's head open with the pitchfork, and
proposed burying another-she called a " lazy
blackguard" -under a pile of hay.
" I will say this much for IIascot," she
remarked , as we stood together beside the
stream ; " he was a good farmer ; where will
you see better or cleaner land ? —a pattern I
call it and to lose his whole future for the
sake of a girl like Sally Powner ; leaving his
wife and children on the parish, too ! "
" You don't mean that ? " I said .
" Indeed I do . They are all at Crayshill .
The authorities did talk of shifting them, but

I know nothing about what they have done."
I stood appalled . I thought of my own
poor wife and the little lad, and wondered if

any Sally on the face of the earth could
make me desert them.
" It has given the place a bad sort of name,”
remarked Miss Gostock, looking at me sideways : " but of course that does not signify to
you."
" Oh ! of course not," I agreed .
" And don't you be minding any stories ;
there are always a lot of stories going about
places."
I said I did not mind stories . I had lived too

long in London to pay much attention to them.
" That's right," remarked Miss Gostock, and
negativing my offer to see her home she started
off to Chalmont .
It was not half-an-hour after her departure
when I happened to be walking slowly round
the meadows, from which the newly mown hay
had been carted, that I heard the rumour
which vexed me-" Nut Bush Farm haunted ."

I thought, " I said the whole thing was too
good to last."
"What, Jack, lost in reverie,” cried my
sister , who had come up from Devonshire to
keep me company, and help to get the furniture a little to rights, entering at the moment,
carrying lights ; " supper will be ready in a
minute, and you can dream as much as you
like after you have had something to eat."

I did not say anything to her about my trouble,
which was then indeed no bigger than a man's
hand, but which grew and grew till it attained
terrible proportions .
What was I to do with my wife and child ?
I never could bring them to a place reputed to
be haunted. All in vain I sauntered up and
down the Beech Walk night after night ;
walked through the wood- as a rule selected
that route when I went to Whittleby. It did
not produce the slightest effect . Not a farm
servant but eschewed that path townward ;
not a girl but preferred spending her Sunday
at home rather than venture under the interlacing branches of the beech trees , or through
the dark recesses of the wood .
It was becoming serious-I did not know
what to do.
One wet afternoon Lolly came in draggled ,
but beaming .

"I've made a new acquaintance, Jack," she
said ; " a Mrs. Waite-such a nice creature,
but in dreadfully bad health . It came on to

rain when I was coming home, and so I took
refuge under a great tree at the gate of a most
picturesque old house. I had not stood there
long before a servant with an umbrella appeared at the porch to ask if I would not
please to walk in until the storm abated. I

waited there ever so long, and we had such a
pleasant talk. She is a most delightful woman,
with a melancholy, pathetic sort of expression
that has been haunting me ever since. She
apologised for not having called-said she was
not strong and could not walk so far. They
keep no conveyance she can drive. Mr. Waite ,
who is not at home at present, rides into
Whittleby when anything is wanted .
" I hoped she would not think of standing
on ceremony with me. I was only a farmer's
daughter, and accustomed to plain, homely
ways, and I asked her if I might walk round
and bid her good-bye before I went home."
" You must not go home yet, Lolly," I cried ,
alarmed ; " what in the world should I do without you ? "
"Well, you would be a lonely boy," she
answered, complacently, " with no one to sew

on a button or darn your socks, or make you
eat or go to bed, or do anything you ought to
do."

I had not spoken a word to her about the
report which was troubling me, and I knew
there must be times when she wondered why
I did not go up to London and fetch my wife
and child to enjoy the bright summer-time ; but
Lolly was as good as gold, and never asked me
a question, or even indirectly enquired if Lucy

and I had quarrelled, as many another sister
might.
She was as pleasant and fresh to look upon as
a Spring morning, with her pretty brown hair
smoothly braided , her cotton or muslin dresses
never soiled or crumpled, but as nice as though
the laundress had that moment sent them home
-a rose in her belt and her hands never idlefor ever busy with curtain or blind , or something her housewifely eyes thought had need
of making or mending.
About ten days after that showery afternoon
when she found shelter under Mrs. Waite's

hospitable roof, I felt surprised when entering
the parlour a few minutes before our early
dinner, I found Lolly standing beside one of
the windows apparently hopelessly lost in the
depths of a brown study.
" Why, Lolly," I exclaimed, finding she took
no notice of me, " where have you gone to now ?
A penny for your thoughts, young lady."
"They are not worth a penny," she said, and
turning from the window took some work and
sat down at a little distance from the spot where
I was standing.
I was so accustomed to women, even the best
and gayest of them, having occasional fits of
temper or depression- times when silence on my
part seemed the truest wisdom, that taking no

notice of my sister's manner I occupied myself
with the newspaper till dinner was announced.
During the progress of that meal she talked
little and ate still less, but when I was leaving
the room, in order to go out to a field of barley
where the reapers were at work, she asked me
to stop a moment.
" I want to speak to you , Jack,” she said .
Speak, then," I answered , with that lack of
ceremony which obtains amongst brothers and
sisters.
· She hesitated for a moment, but did not
speak.
"What on earth is the matter with you ?
Lolly," I exclaimed, " are you sick, or cross, or
sorry,or what ? "
" If it must be one of the four," she answered ,
with a dash of her usual manner, " it is ' or
what,' Jack," and she came close up to where I
stood and took me sorrowfully by the button
hole.
“ Well ? " I said, amused , for this had always
been a favourite habit of Lolly's when she
wanted anything from one of the males of her
family.
"Jack, you won't laugh at me.
" I feel much more inclined to be cross with
you," I answered . "What are you beating
about the bush for, Lolly ? "
K

She lifted her fair face a moment and I saw
she was crying.
" Lolly, Lolly ! " I cried, clasping her to my
heart, " what is it, dear ? Have you bad news

from home, or have you heard anything about
Lucy or the boy ? Don't keep me in suspense,
there's a darling. No matter what has happened,
let me know the worst."
She smiled through her tears, and Lolly has
the rarest smile ! It quieted my anxious heart
in a moment, even before she said-

"No , Jack- it is nothing about home, or
Lucy, or Teddy, but- but-but-" and then she
relinquished her hold of the button-hole, and
fingered each button on the front of my coat
carefully and lingeringly. " Did you ever hear
-Jack- anybody say anything about this
place ? "
I knew in a moment what she meant ; I knew
the cursed tattle had reached her ears, but I only
asked-
"What sort of thing, Lolly? "
She did not answer me ; instead she put an·
other question .
" Is that the reason you have not brought
Lucy down ? "
I felt vexed-but I had so much confidence in

her good sense, I could not avoid answering
without a moment's delay.

"Well, yes ; I do not want her to come till
""
this foolish report has completely died away.
""
"Are you quite sure it is a foolish report ?
she enquired .

"Why, of course ; it could not be anything
else."

She did not speak immediately, then all at
once-
" Jack," she said, " I must tell you something.
Lock the door that we may not be interrupted."
" No ," I answered ; " come into the barley
field . Don't you remember Mr. Fennimore

Cooper advised, if you want to talk secrets,
choose the middle of a plain."
I tried to put a good face on the matter, but
the sight of Lolly's tears, the sound of Lolly's
doleful voice, darkened my very heart. What
had she to tell me which required locked doors
or the greater privacy of a half-reaped barley
field. I could trust my sister- she was no fooland I felt perfectly satisfied that no old woman's
story had wrought the effect produced on her.
" Now, Lolly," I said, as we paced side by side
along the top of the barley field in a solitude all
the more complete because life and plenty of it
was close at hand .
" You know what they say about the place ,
Jack ? "
This was interrogative, and so I answered .

132 NUT BUSH FARM,

" Well, no, Lolly, I can't say that I do , for the
very good reason that I have always refused to
listen to the gossip . What do they say ?
" That a man haunts the Beech Walk, the
long meadow, and the wood."
"Yes, I have heard that ," I replied .
“ And they say further, the man is Mr. Hascot ,
the late tenant ."
" But he is not dead," I exclaimed , " how then
can they see his ghost ? "
“ I cannot tell . I know nothing but what I saw
this morning . After breakfast I went to Whittleby, and as I came back I observed a man
before me on the road . Following him , I noticed
a curious thing, that none of the people he met
made way for him or he for them. He walked
straight on, without any regard to the persons on
the side path , and yet no one seemed to come
into collision with him . When I reached the

field path I saw him going on still at the same
pace. He did not look to right or left , and did
not seem to walk-the motion was gliding-"
" Yes, dear."
"He went on, and so did I, till we reached
the hollow where the nut-bushes grow, then he
disappeared from sight. I looked down among
the trees, thinking I should be able to catch a
glimpse of his figure through the underwood,
but no, I could see no signs of him , neither could

I hear any . Everything was as still as death ;
it seemed to me that my ear had a spell of silence
laid upon it. "
" And then," I asked hoarsely, as she paused .
" Why, Jack, I walked on and crossed the
little foot bridge and was just turning into the
Beech Walk when the same man bustled suddenly
across my path, so close to me if I had put out
my hands I could have touched him. I drew
back, frightened for a minute , then, as he had
not seemed to see me, I turned and looked at him
as he sped along down the little winding path to
the wood. I thought he must be some silly
creature, some harmless sort of idiot, to be running here and there without any apparent object.
All at once, as he neared the wood , he stopped,
and, half wheeling round, beckoned to me to
follow him ."
" You did not, Lolly ? "
" No, I was afraid . I walked a few steps
quietly till I got among the beech trees and so
screened from sight, and then I began to run .
I could not run fast, for my knees trembled
under me ; but still I did run as far nearly as
that seat round the ' Priest's Tree.' I had not
got quite up to the seat when I saw a man rise
from it and stand upright as if waiting for me.
It was the same person, Jack ! I recognised him,
instantly, though I had not seen his face clearly

before. He stood quiet for a moment, and then
with the same gliding motion, silently disappeared."
" Some one must be playing a very nice game
about Nut Bush Farm," I exclaimed .
" Perhaps so, dear ," she said , doubtfully.
"Why, Lolly, you don't believe it was a
ghost you met in the broad daylight ? " I cried ,
incredulously.
"I don't think it was a living man, Jack," she
answered.
"Living or dead he dare not bring himself
into close quarters with me," was my somewhat
braggart remark. " Why, Lolly, I have walked
the ground day after day, and night after night
in the hope of seeing your friend , and not a sign
of an intruder, in the flesh or out of it, could I
find. Put the matter away, child, and don't
ramble in that direction again . If I can
ascertain the name of the person who is trying
to frighten the household and disgust me with
Nut Bush Farm he shall go to jail if the magistrates are of my way of thinking . Now, as you
have told me this terrible story, and we have

reduced your great mountain to a molehill, I
will walk back with you to the house."
She did not make any reply : we talked over
indifferent matters as we paced along. I went
with her into the pleasant sunshiny drawingroom and looked her out a book and made her
promise to read something amusing ; then I was
going, when she put up her lips for me to kiss
her, and said-

"Jack, you won't run any risks ? "
" Risks ! pooh, you silly little woman,' I
answered ; and so left my sister and repaired to
the barley field once more.
When it was time for the men to leave off
work I noticed that one after another began to
take a path leading immediately to the main
road, which was a very circuitous route to the
hamlet, where most of them had either cottages
or lodgings.
I noticed this for some time, and then asked a
brawny young fellow,
"Why don't you go home through the Beech
Walk ? It is not above half the distance ."
He smiled and made some almost unintelligible answer.
"Why are you all afraid of taking the
shortest way," I remarked , " seeing there are
enough of you to put half-a- dozen ghosts to
the rout ? "
" Likely, sir," was the answer ; " but the old
master was a hard man living, and there is not
many would care to meet him dead."
"What old master ? " I enquired .
" Mr. Hascot : it's him as walks. I saw him

as plain as I see you now, sir, one moonlight
night, just this side of the wood, and so did Nat
Tyler and James Monsey, and James Monsey's
father-wise Ben ."
" But Mr. Hascot is not dead ; how can he
' walk,' as you call it ? " was my natural
exclamation.

" If he is living then , sir, where is he ? "
asked the man . "There is nobody can tell that,

and there is a many, especially just lately, think
he must have been made away with . He had a
cruel lot of money about him - where is all that
money gone to ? "
The fellow had waxed quite earnest in his
interrogations, and really for the first time the
singularity of Mr. Hascot's disappearance
seemed to strike me.
I said , after an instant's pause, “ The money
is wherever he is. He went off with some girl ,
did he not ? "
"It suited the old people to say so," he
answered ; " but there is many a one thinks
they know more about the matter than is good
for them . I can't help hearing, and one of the
neighbours did say Mrs. Ockfield was seen in
church last Sunday with a new dress on and a
shawl any lady might have worn."
" And who is Mrs. Ockfield ? " I enquired .
"Why, Sally Powner's grandmother. The

old people treated the girl shameful while she
was with them, and now they want to make her
out no better than she should be."
And with a wrathful look the young man,

who I subsequently discovered had long
been fond of Sally, took up his coat and his tin
bottle and his sickle , and with a brief " I think
I'll be going, sir ; good night," departed .
It was easy to return to the house, but I
found it impossible to shake the effect produced by this dialogue off my mind.
For the first time I began seriously to consider
the manner of Mr. Hascot's disappearance, and
more seriously still commenced trying to piece
together the various hints I had received as to
his character.

A hard man- a hard master, all I ever heard
speak considered him , but just, and in the main
not unkind. He had sent coals to one widow,

and kept a poor old labourer off the parish, and
then in a minute, for the sake of a girl's face,
left his own wife and children to the mercy of
the nearest Union.
As I paced along it seemed to me monstrous ,
and yet how did it happen that till a few minutes
previously I had never heard even a suspicion of
foul play ?
Was it not more natural to conclude the man

mut have been made away with , than that , in

one brief day, he should have changed his nature
and the whole current of his former life ?

Upon the other hand , people must have had
some strong reason for imagining he was gone
off with Miss Powner. The notion of a man

disappearing in this way-vanishing as if the
earth had opened to receive him and closed
again for the sake of any girl, however attractive, was too unnatural an idea for any one
to have evolved out of his internal
sciousness. There must have been some substratum of fact, and then upon the other hand,
there seemed to me more than a substratum

of possibility in the theory started of his having
been murdered .

Supposing he had been murdered , I went
on to argue, what then? Did I imagine he
" walked ? " did I believe he could not rest
wherever he was laid ?

Pooh ! nonsense. It might be that the murderer haunted the place of his crime- that he
hovered about to see if his guilt were still undetected, but as to anything in the shape of a
ghost tenanting the Beech Walk, long meadow,
and wood, I did not believe it-I could not,
and I added, " if I saw it with my own eyes, I
would not."
Having arrived at which decided and sensible
conclusion , I went in to supper.

Usually a sound sleeper, I found it impossible
that night when I lay down to close my eyes. I
tossed and turned, threw off the bedclothes
under the impression I was too hot and drew
them tight up round me the next instant, feeling
cold . I tried to think of my crops, of my land ,
of my wife, of my boy, of my future -all in vain.
A dark shadow, a wall-like night stood between
me and all the ordinary interests of my life-I
could not get the notion of Mr. Hascot's strange
disappearance out of my mind. I wondered if
there was anything about the place which made
it in the slightest degree probable I should ever
learn to forget the wife who loved , the boy who
was dependent on me. Should I ever begin to
think I might have done better as regards my
choice of a wife, that it would be nicer to have
healthy merry children than my affectionate
delicate lad ?

When I got to this point, I could stand it no
longer. I felt as though some mocking spirit
were taking possession of me, which eventually
would destroy all my peace of mind , if I did not
cast it out promptly and effectually.
I would not lie there supine to let any demon
torment me ; and, accordingly, springing to the
floor, I dressed in hot haste , and flinging wide
the window, looked out over a landscape bathed
in the clear light of a most lovely moon.

"How beautiful ! " I thought. " I have never
yet seen the farm by night, I'll just go and take
a stroll round it and then turn in again-after a
short walk I shall likely be able to sleep."
So saying, I slipped downstairs, closed the hall
door softly after me, and went out into the moonlight.

CIIAPTER III.

S I stood upon the lawn, looking around
As
with a keen and subtle pleasure , I felt,
almost for the first time in my life, the full charm
and beauty of night. Every object was as
clearly revealed as though the time had been
noon instead of an hour past midnight , but there
lay a mystic spell on tree and field and stream
the garish day could never equal . It was a fairy
light and a fairy scene, and it would scarcely
have astonished me to see fantastic elves issue
from the fox-glove's flowers or dart from

the shelter of concealing leaves and dance a
measure on the emerald sward .
For a minute I felt as I fancy many and
many a common-place man must have done
when first wedded to some miracle of grace and

beauty -a sense of amazement and unreality
All this loveliness was mine -the moonlit

lawn - the stream murmuring through the fir
plantation, singing soft melodies as it pursued
its glittering way-the trees with a silvery
gleam tinting their foliage -the roses giving
out their sweetest, tenderest, perfumes -the
wonderful silence around- the fresh, pure airthe soft night wind -the prosperity with which
God had blessed me . My heart grew full , as
I turned and gazed first on this side and then
on that, and I felt vexed and angry to remember I had ever suffered myself to listen to
idle stories and to be made uncomfortable by
reason of village gossip .
On such a night it really seemed a shame
to go to bed, and , accordingly, though the
restlessness which first induced me to rise had
vanished, and in doing so left the most
soothing calm behind, I wandered on away
from the house, now beside the stream, and
again across a meadow, where faint odours from
the lately-carried hay still lingered.
Still the same unreal light over field and
copse -still the same witching glamour- still
the same secret feeling. I was seeing something
and experiencing some sensation I might never
again recall on this side of the grave !
A most lovely night--one most certainly
not for drawn curtains and closed eyelidsone rather for lovers' tête-a-tête or a dreamy
reverie-for two young hearts to reveal their
secrets to each other or one soul to commune
alone with God.
Still rambling, I found myself at last beside
a stile, opening upon a path, which, winding
upwards, led past the hollow where the nut

trees grew, and then joined the footway leading through the Long field to Whittleby.
The Long field was the last in that direction
belonging to Nut Bush Farm. It joined upon
a portion of the land surrounding Chalmont,
and the field path continued consequently to
pass through Miss Gostock's property till the
main road was reached. It cut off a long

distance, and had been used generally by
the inhabitants of the villages and hamlets
dotted about my place until the rumour being
circulated that something might be "seen"
or " met" deterred people from venturing by
a route concerning which such evil things
were whispered . I had walked it constantly,
both on account of the time it saved and
also in order to set a good example to my
labourers and my neighbours, but I might as
well have saved my pains.

I was regarded merely as foolhardy, and
I knew people generally supposed I should
one day have cause to repent my temerity.
As I cleared the stile and began winding
my upward way to the higher ground beyond,
the thought did strike me what a likely place
for a murder Nut Bush Hollow looked. It
was a deep excavation, out of which, as no
one supposed it to be natural, hundreds and
thousands of loads of earth must at some

time or other have been carted . From top
to bottom it was clothed with nut trees -they
grew on every side, and in thick almost impenetrable masses . For years and years they
scemed to have had no care bestowed on
them , the Hollow forming in this respect a
remarkable contrast to the rest of Mr. Hascot's
careful farming, and, as a fir plantation ran
along the base of the Hollow, while the
moon's light fell clear and full on some of
the bushes , the others lay in densest shadow.
The road that once led down into the pit
was now completely overgrown with nut bushes
which grew luxuriantly to the very edge of
the Beech Walk, and threatened ere long to
push their way between the trunks of the
great trees, which were the beauty and the
pride of my lovely farm .
At one time, so far as I could understand ,
the nut bushes had the whole place almost to
themselves, and old inhabitants told me that
formerly, in the days when their parents
were boys and girls, the nuts used to pay
the whole of the rent. As years passed , however, whether from want of care or some

natural cause, they gradually ceased to bear,
and had to be cut down and cleared off the

ground—those, in the dell, however, being
suffered to remain, the hollow being useless

for husbandry, and the bushes which flourished
there producing a crop of nuts sufficient
for the farmer's family.
All this recurred to my mind as I stood for
a moment and looked down into the depths
of rustling green below me. I thought of
the boys who must have gone nutting there,
of all the nests birds had built in the branches
so closely interlaced, of the summers' suns
which had shone full and strong upon that
mass of foliage, of the winters' snows

which had lain heavy on twig and stem and
happed the strong roots in a warm covering
of purest white .
And then the former idea again asserted
itself what
a splendid place for a tragedy ;
a sudden blow-a swift stab -even a treacherous push- and the deed could be done -a
man might be alive and well one minute ,
and dead the next !

False friend, or secret enemy ; rival or thief,
it was competent for either in such a place at
any lonely hour to send a man upon his last long
journey. Had Mr. Hascot been so served ?
Down, far down, was he lying in a quiet,
dreamless sleep ? At that very moment was
there any one starting from fitful slumber to
grapple with his remorse for crime committed, or
shrink with horror from the dread of detection ?

" Where was my fancy leading me ? " I suddenly asked myself. This was worse than in
my own chamber preventing the night watches .
Since I had been standing there my heart felt
heavier than when tossing from side to side in
bed, and wooing unsuccessfully the slumber
which refused to come for my asking.

What folly ! what nonsense ! and into what an
insane course of speculation had I not embarked. I would leave the eerie place and get
once again into the full light of the moon's
bright beams.
Hush ! hark ! what was that ? deep down
amongst the underwood -a rustle , a rush, and
a scurry-then silence -then a stealthy movement amongst the bushes- then whilst I was
peering down into the abyss lined with waving
green below, SOMETHING passed by me swiftly,
something which brought with it a cold chill as
though the hand of one dead had been laid suddenly on my heart .
Instantly I turned and looked around. There
was not a living thing in sight -neither on the
path, nor on the sward, nor on the hill side, nor
skirting the horizon as I turned my eyes

upward.
For a moment I stood still in order to steady
my nerves, then re-assuring myself with the
thought it must have been an animal of some

kind, I completed the remainder of the ascent
without further delay.
" The ghost, I suspect," I said to myself as I
reached the Long Field and the path leading
back to the farm, " will resolve itself into a hare or
pheasant--is not the whirr of a cock pheasant
rising, for instance, enough, when coming unexpectedly, to frighten any nervous person out
of his wits ? and might not a hare, or a cat, or,
better still, a stoat —yes , a stoat, with its gliding, almost noiseless, movements - mimic the
footfall of a suppositious ghost ? "
By this time I had gained the summit of the
incline, and slightly out of breath with breasting the ascent, stood for a moment contemplating the exquisite panorama stretched out
beneath me. I linger on that moment
because it was the last time I ever saw beauty
in the moonlight . Now I cannot endure the
silvery gleam of the queen of night— weird ,
mournful , fantastic if you like, but to be desired
-no .

Whenever possible I draw the blinds and
close the shutters, yet withal on moonlight
nights I cannot sleep , the horror of darkness is
to my mind nothing in comparison to the terror
of a full moon. But I drivel ; let me hasten on .
From the crest of the hill I could see lying
below a valley of dream-like beauty- woods in

the foreground -a champagne country spreading away into the indefinite distance-a stream
winding in and out, dancing and glittering under
the moon's beams-a line of hills dimly seen
against the horizon , and already a streak of
light appearing above them the first faint
harbinger of dawn .
" It is morning, then , already," I said, and
with the words turned my face homewards. As
I did so I saw before me on the path - clearlythe figure of a man.
He was walking rapidly and I hurried my
pace in order to overtake him. Now to this

part of my story I desire to draw particular
attention. Let me hurry as I might I never
seemed able to get a foot nearer to him.
At intervals he paused as if on purpose to
assist my desire, but the moment I seemed gaining upon him the distance between us suddenly
increased . I could not tell how he did it, the
fact only remained-it was like pursuing some
phantom in a dream.
All at once when he reached the bridge he
stood quite still. He did not move hand or
limb as I drew near- the way was so narrow
I knew I should have to touch him in passing,
nevertheless I pressed forward . My foot was
on the bridge -I was close to him -I felt my
breath coming thick and fast- I clasped a stick

I had picked up in the plantation firmly in my
hand-I stopped intending to speak -I opened
my mouth intending to do so -and then-then
-without any movement on his part- I was
alone !

Yes, as totally alone as though he had never
stood on the bridge- never preceded me along
the field-path - never loitered upon my footsteps
-never paused for my coming.
I was appalled .
" Lord, what is this ? " I thought ; " am I
On my
going mad ? " I felt as if I were.
honour, I know I was as nearly insane at that
moinent as a man ever can be who is still in
the possession of his senses.
Beyond lay the farm of which in my folly I had
felt so proud to be the owner, where I once
meant to be so happy and win health for my wife
and strength for my boy. I saw the Beech
Walk I had gloried in the ricks of hay it
seemed so good to get thatched geometrically as
only one man in the neighbourhood was said to
be able to lay the straw .
What was farm, or riches , or beech trees, or
anything, to me now? over the place there seemed
a curse- better the meanest cottage than a
palace with such accessories.
If I had been incredulous before, I was not so

now-I could not distrust the evidence of my

own eyes -and yet as I walked along, I tried
after a minute or two, to persuade myself

imagination had been playing some juggler's
trick with me. The moon, I argued, always

lent herself readily to a game of hide-and- seek .
She is always open to join in fantastic gambols
with shadows-with thorn bushes- with a waving branch-aye even with a clump of gorse. I
must have been mistaken -I had been thinking
weird thoughts as I stood by that dismal dell
-I had seen no man walking -beheld no figure
disappear !
Just as I arrived at this conclusion I beheld
some one coming towards me down the Beech
Walk. It was a man walking leisurely with a
firm , free step . The sight did me good . Here

was something tangible - something to question .
I stood still, in the middle of the path -the
Beech Walk being rather a grassy glade with a
narrow footway dividing it, than anything usually
understood by the term walk-so that I might
speak to the intruder when he drew near, and
ask him what he meant by trespassing on my
property, more especially at such an hour.
There were no public rights on my land except
as regarded the path across the Long Field and
through the wood . No one had any right or
business to be in the Beech Walk, by day or
night, save those employed about the Farm, and

this person was a gentleman ; even in the distance I could distinguish that. As he came
closer I saw he was dressed in a loose Palmerston
suit, that he wore a low-crowned hat, and that
he carried a light cane. The moonbeams dancing down amongst the branches and between
the leaves fell full upon his face, and catching
sight of a ring he had on his right hand, made
it glitter with as many different colours as a
prism .
A middle-aged man, so far as I could judge,
with a set, determined expression of countenance ,
dark hair, no beard or whiskers, only a small
moustache. A total stranger to me. I had
never seen him nor any one like him in the
neighbourhood. Who could he be, and what in
the wide world was he doing on my premises at
that unearthly hour of the morning ?
He came straight on, never moving to right or
left-taking no more notice of me than if he
had been blind. His easy indifference, his contemptuous coolness, angered me, and planting
myself a little more in his way, I began—
" Are you aware , sir— ”
I got no further . Without swerving in the
slightest degree from the path, he passed me!
1 felt something like a cold mist touch me for an
instant, and the next, I saw him pursuing his
steady walk down the centre of the glade. I

was sick with fear, but for all that I ran after
him faster than I had ever done since boyhood.
All to no purpose ! I might as well have
tried to catch the wind. Just where three ways
joined I stood still and looked around . I was
quite alone ! Neither sign nor token of the intruder could I discover. On my left lay the
dell where the nut trees grew, and above it the
field path to Whittleby showing white and clear
in the moonlight ; close at hand was the bridge ;
straight in front the wood looked dark and
solemn. Between me and it, lay a little hollow,
down which a narrow path wound tortuously.
As I gazed I saw that, where a moment before
no one had been, a man was walking now . But
I could not follow. My limbs refused their
office. He turned his head, and lifting his hand
on which the ring glittered, beckoned me to
come. He might as well have asked one seized
with paralysis. On the confines of the wood he
stood motionless as if awaiting my approach ;
then, when I made no sign of movement, he
wrung his hands with a despairing gesture, and
disappeared.
At the same moment, moon , dell , bridge, and
stream faded from my sight-- and I fainted .

CHAPTER IV .

T was not much past eight o'clock when I
IT
knocked at Miss Gostock's hall door, and
asked if I could see that lady.
After that terrible night vision I had made up
my mind. Behind Mr. Hascot's disappearance I
felt sure there lurked some terrible tragedy
-living, no man should have implored my help
with such passionate earnestness without avail ,
and if indeed one had appeared to me from the
dead I would right him if I could .
But never for a moment did I then think of
giving up the farm . The resolve I had
come to seemed to have braced up my courage
-let what might come or go, let crops remain

unreaped and men neglect their labour, let
monetary loss and weary anxious days be in
store if they would, I meant to go on to
the end .

The first step on my road clearly led in the
direction of Miss Gostock's house. She alone

could give me all the information I requiredto her alone could I speak freely and fully about
what I had seen.

I was instantly admitted and found the lady,
as I had expected , at breakfast . It was her
habit, I knew, to partake of that meal while the
labourers she employed were similarly engaged.
She was attired in an easy négligé of a white
skirt and a linen coat which had formerly
belonged to her brother. She was not taking
tea or coffee like any other woman - but
was engaged upon about a pound of smoking
steak which she ate covered with mustard and
washed down with copious draughts of homebrewed beer.

She received me cordially and invited me to
join in the banquet-a request I ungallantly
declined , eliciting in return the remark I should
never be good for much till I ceased living on
" slops " and took to " good old English " fare.
After these preliminaries I drew my chair
near the table and said,
"I want you to give me some information ,
Miss Gostock, about my predecessor ."
"What sort of information," she asked, with
a species of frost at once coming over her
manner.
"Can you tell me anything of his personal
appearance ? "
"Why do you ask ? "

I did not immediately answer, and seeing my
hesitation she went on.

" Because if you mean to tell me you or
any one else have seen him about your place I
""
would not believe it if you swore it- there ! '
" I do not ask you to believe it, Miss
Gostock," I said .
"And I give you fair warning, it is of no use
coming here and asking me to relieve you
of your bargain, because I won't do it . I like
you well enough-better than I ever liked a
tenant ; but I don't intend to be a shilling
out of pocket by you."
" I hope you never may be, " I answered
meekly.
" I'll take very good care I never am ,” she
retorted ; " and so don't come here talking
about Mr. Hascot. He served me a dirty turn ,
and I would not put it one bit past him to try
and get the place a bad name."
"Will you tell me what sort of looking man
he was ? " I asked determinedly.
No, I won't," she snapped, and while she
spoke she rose, drained the last drop out of a
pewter measure, and after tossing on the straw
hat with a defiant gesture, thumped its crown
well down on her head. I took the hint, and
rising, said I must endeavour to ascertain the
particulars I wanted elsewhere.

" You won't ascertain them from me ,"
retorted Miss Gostock, and so we parted as we
had never done before-on bad terms.
Considerably perplexed I walked out of the
house. A rebuff of this sort was certainly the
last thing I could have expected, and as I paced
along I puzzled myself by trying to account for
Miss Gostock's extraordinary conduct, and
anxiously considering what I was to do under
present circumstances. All at once the recol-
""
lection of mine host of the " Bunch of Hops
flashed across my mind. He must have seen
Mr. Hascot often , and I could address a few
casual questions to him without exciting his
curiosity.
No sooner thought than done . Turning my
face towards Whittleby, I stepped briskly on.
" Did I ever see Mr. Hascot," repeated the
landlord- when after some general conversation
about politics , the weather, the crops, and many
other subjects, I adroitly turned it upon the
late tenant of Nut Bush Farm- " often, sir . I
never had much communication with him ,
for he was one of your stand-aloof, keep-yourdistance, sort of gentlemen -fair dealing and
honourable but neither free nor generous .
He has often sat where you are sitting now, sir,
and not so much as said-' it is a fine day,' or,
I am afraid we shall have rain .' "

" You had but to see him walking down the
street to know what he was. As erect as a

grenadier, with a firm easy sort of marching
step, he looked every inch a gentleman -just in
his every-day clothes , a Palmerston suit and a
round hat, he was, as many a one said, fit to
go to court. His hands were not a bit like a
farmer's, but white and delicate as any lady's,
and the diamond ring he wore flashed like a star
when he stroked the slight bit of a moustache, that
was all the hair he had upon his face. No - not a
handsome gentleman , but fine looking, with
a presencc- bless and save us all to think of his
giving up everything for the sake of that slip of
a girl."
" She was very pretty, wasn't she ? " I enquired .
"Beautiful- we all said she was too pretty to
come to any good . The old grandmother you
see had serious cause for keeping so tight a hand
over her, but it was in her, and what's bred in
the bone,' you know, sir. "
" And you really think they did go off
together ? "
" Oh ! yes, sir ; nobody had ever any doubt
about that."

On this subject his tone was so decided I felt
it was useless to continue the conversation , and
having paid him for the modest refreshment of
which I had partaken I sauntered down the

High Street and turned into the Bank, where I
thought of opening an account .
When I had settled all preliminaries with the
manager he saved me the trouble of beating
about the bush by breaking cover himself and
asking if anything had been heard of Mr. Hascot.
"Not that I know of," I answered .
" Curious affair, wasn't it ," he said .
" It appears so, but I have not heard the
whole story ."

"Well, the whole story is in a nut-shell," returned the manager . "He comes over here one

day and without assigning any reason withdraws
the whole of his balance, which was very heavy
-is met on the road homeward but never

returns home - the same day the girl Powner is
also missing-what do you think of all that ? "
" It is singular," I said, " very."
"Yes, and to leave his wife and family totally
unprovided for."
" I cannot understand that at all."

" Nor I-it was always known he had an extreme partiality for the young person- he and
Miss Gostock quarrelled desperately on the

subject-but no one could have imagined an
attachment of that sort would have led a man

so far astray- Hascot more especially. If I
had been asked to name the last person in the
world likely to make a fool of himself for the

sake of a pretty face I should have named the
late tenant of Nut Bush Farm ."

" There never was a suspicion of foul play," I
suggested .
" Oh, dear, no ! It was broad daylight when
he was last seen on the Whittleby road. The
same morning it is known he and the girl were
talking earnestly together beside the little wood
on your property, and two persons answering
their description were traced to London, that is
to say, a gentleman came forward to say he
believed he had travelled up with them as far as
New Cross on the afternoon in question."
" He was an affectionate father I have heard,"
I said.

" A most affectionate parent -a most devoted
husband. Dear, dear ! it is dreadfully sad to
think how a bad woman may drag the best of
men down to destruction. It is terrible to think

of his wife and family being inmates of the
Union."
"Yes, and it is terrible to consider not a soul

has tried to get them out of it,” I answered , a
little tartly.
"H- m, perhaps so ; but we all know we are
contributing to their support," he returned with
an effort at jocularity, which, in my then frame
of mind, seemed singularly mal-apropos.
"There is something in that," I replied with

an effort, and leaving the Bank next turned my
attention to the Poorhouse at Crayshill.
At that time many persons thought what I
did Quixotic . It is so much the way of the
world to let the innocent suffer for the guilty,
that I believe Mr. Hascot's wife might have
ended her days in Crayshill Union but for the
action I took in the matter.
Another night I felt I could not rest till I had
arranged for an humble lodging she and her
family could occupy till I was able to form some
plan for their permanent relief. I found her a
quiet, ladylike woman , totally unable to give
me the slightest clue as to where her husband
might be found . " He was just at the stile.
on the Chalmont fields," she said , " when Mr.
Waite met him ; no one saw him afterwards ,
unless it might be the Ockfields, but, of course ,
there is no information to be got from them .
The guardians have tried every possible means
to discover his whereabouts without success .

My own impression is he and Sally Powner have
gone to America, and that some day we may
hear from him. He cannot harden his heart for
ever and forget- Here Mrs. Hascot's sentence trailed off into passionate weeping.
" It is too monstrous ! " I considered ; " the
man never did such a thing as desert his wife
and children . Some one knows all about the

matter," and then in a moment I paused in
the course of my meditations.

Was that person Miss Gostock?
It was an ugly idea, and yet it haunted me.
When I remembered the woman's masculine

strength, when I recalled her furious impetuosity when I asked her a not very
exasperating question , as I recalled the way she
tossed off that brandy, when I considered her
love of money, her eagerness to speak ill of her
late tenant, her semi-references to some great
trouble prior to which she was more like other
women, or, perhaps , to speak more correctly,
less unlike them -doubts came crowding upon
my mind.
It was when entering her ground Mr. Hascot
was last seen . He had a large sum of money in

his possession . She was notoriously fond of
rambling about Nut Bush Farm , and what my
labouring men called " spying around," which had
been the cause of more than one pitched battle
between herself and Mr. Hascot.
" The old master could not a-bear her," said
one young fellow.
I hated myself for the suspicion ; and yet,
do what I would , I could not shake it off. Not
for a moment did I imagine Miss Gostock had
killed her former tenant in cold blood ; but it
certainly occurred to me that the dell was deep ,

and the verge treacherous, that it would be easy
to push a man over, either by accident or
design, that the nut-bushes grew thick, that
a body might lie amongst them till it rotted , ere
even the boys who went nutting there, season
after season, happened to find it.
Should I let the matter drop?
No , I decided .
With that mute appeal haunting my memory,
I should know no rest or peace till I had
solved the mystery of Mr. Hascot's disappearance, and cleared his memory from the shameful stain circumstances had cast upon it.
What should I do next ? I thought the matter over for a few days, and then decided to call
on Mr. Waite, who never yet had called on me.
As usual, he was not at home ; but I saw his
wife, whom I found just the sort of woman
Lolly described -a fair, delicate creature, who
seemed fading into the grave.
She had not much to tell me. It was her
husband who saw Mr. Hascot at the Chalmont
stile ; it was he also who had seen Mr. Hascot

and the girl Powner talking together on the
morning of their disappearance. It so happened
he had often chanced to notice them together
before. " She was a very, very pretty girl,"
Mrs. Waite added , " and I always thought a
modest. She had a very sweet way of speaking
-quite above her station - inherited , no doubt ,

for her father was a gentleman . Poor little
Sally ! "
The words were not much but the manner

touched me sensibly. I felt drawn to Mrs.
Waite from that moment, and told her more of
what I had beheld and what I suspected than
I had mentioned to anyone else.

As to my doubts concerning Miss Gostock, I
was of course silent, but I said quite plainly I did
not believe Mr. Hascot had gone off with any girl
or woman either, that I thought he had come to an
unfair end, and that I was of opinion the stories
circulated, concerning a portion of Nut Bush
Farm being haunted , had some foundation in
fact.

"Do you believe in ghosts then? " she asked,
with a curious smile .
" I believe in the evidence of my senses ," I

answered, " and I declare to you , Mrs. Waite,
that one night not long since, I saw as plainly as
I see you, what I can only conclude to have been
the semblance of Mr. Hascot."
She did not make any reply, she only turned
very pale, and blaming myself for having
alarmed one in her feeble state of health , I
hastened to apologise and take my leave.
As we shook hands, she retained mine for a
moment, and said, " When you hear anything
more, if you should that is, you will tell us will

you not. Naturally we feel interested in the
matter, he was such a near neighbour, and —we
knew him."
I assured her I would not fail to do so , and left
the room .
Before I reached the front door I found I had

forgotten one of my gloves, and immediately
retraced my steps

The drawing-room door was ajar, and somewhat unceremoniously, perhaps, I pushed it ,
open and entered.

To my horror and surprise, Mrs. Waite , whom
I had left apparently in her ordinary state of
languid health , lay full length on the sofa,
sobbing as if her heart would break. What I
said so indiscreetly had brought on an attack
of violent hysterics -a malady, with the signs
and tokens of which I was not altogether unacquainted.
Silently I stole out of the room without my
glove, and left the house, closing the front door
noiselessly behind me.
A couple of days elapsed , and then I decided
to pay a visit to Mrs. Ockfield . If she liked
to throw any light on the matter, I felt
satisfied she could . It was, to say the least
of it, most improbable her grand-daughter,
whether she had been murdered or gone
away with Mr. Hascot, should disappear and

not leave a clue by which her relatives could
trace her.
The Ockfields were not liked, I found , and
I flattered myself if they had any hand
in Mr. Hascot's sudden disappearance, I should
soon hit on some weak spot in her story.
I found the old woman, who was sixtyseven, and who looked two hundred, standing over her washing tub.
" Can I tell you where my grand -daughter
is," she repeated, drawing her hands out of
the suds and wiping them on her apron.
Surely, sir, and very glad I am to be able
to tell everybody, gentle and simple, where
to find our Sally. She is in a good service
down in Chesl i c. Mr. Hascot got her the

place, but we knew nothing about it till yes
terday ; she left us in a bit of a pet, and
said she wouldn't have written me only some
thing scemed to tell her she must. Ah ! she'll
have a sore heart when she gets my letter
and hears how it has been said that the
master and she went off together. She thought
a deal of the master, did Sally ; he was
always kind and stood between her and her
grandfather."
“ Then do you mean to say," I asked , " that
she knows nothing of Mr. Hascot's disappearance ? "

"Nothing, sir, thank God for all His mercies ;
the whole of the time since the day she left
here she has been in service with a friend
of his. You can read her letter if you like ."
Though I confess old Mrs. Ockfield neither
charmed nor inspired me with confidence, I an
swered that I should like to see the letter very
much indeed .
When I took it in my hand I am bound to say
I thought it had been written with a purpose,
and intended less for a private than for the public
eye, but as I read I fancied there was a ring
of truth about the epistle, more especially
as the writer made passing reference to a very
bitter quarrel which had preceded her departure
from the grand- paternal roof.
" It is very strange," I said, as I returned
the letter, " it is a most singular coincidence
that your grand-daughter and Mr. Hascot
should have left Whittleby on the same day,
and yet that she should know nothing of his
whereabouts, as judging from her letter seems
to be the case."

" Are you quite sure Mr. Hascot ever did
leave Whittleby, sir ? " asked the old woman
with a vindictive look in her still bright old
eyes. "There are those as think he never
went very far from home , and that the whole
truth will come out some day."

" What do you mean ? " I exclaimed ,
surprised.
" Least said soonest mended," she answered ,
shortly ; " only I hopes if ever we do know
the rights of it, people as do hold their heads
high enough, and have had plenty to say
about our girl and us too for that matter,
will find things not so pleasant as they find
them at present . The master had a heap of
money about him , and we know that often
those as has, are those as wants more ! "
" I cannot imagine what you are driving
at," I said , for 1 feared every moment she would
mention Miss Gostock, and bring her name into
the discussion . " If you think Mr. Hascot met
with any foul play you ought to go to the police
about the matter."

" Maybe I will some time," she answered ,
"but just now I have my washing to do. "
" This will buy you some tea to have afterwards," I said, laying down half- a-crown , and
feeling angry with myself for this momentary
irritation . After all the woman had as much
right to her suspicions as I to mine .
Thinking over Miss Powner's letter I came to
the conclusion it might be well to see the young
lady for myself. If I went to the address she
dated from I could ascertain at all events

whether her statement regarding her employment was correct. Yes, I would take train and
travel into Cheshire ; I had commenced the in
vestigation and I would follow it to the end .
I travelled so much faster than Mrs. Ockfield's
letter-which indeed that worthy woman had
not then posted —that when I arrived at my
journey's end I found the fair Sarah in total
ignorance of Mr. Hascot's disappearance and the
surmises to which her own absence had given
rise.
Appearances might be against the girl's truth
and honesty, yet I felt she was dealing fairly
with me .

"A better gentleman, sir," she said, " than
Mr. Hascot never drew breath. And so they
set it about he had gone off with me—they little
know they little know ! Why, sir, he thought
of me and was careful for me as he might for a
daughter. The first time I ever saw him grandfather was beating me, and he interfered to save
me. He knew they treated me badly, and it
was after a dreadful quarrel I had at home he
advised me to go away. He gave me a letter

to the lady I am now with, and a ten-pound
note to pay my travelling and keep something
in my pocket. You'll be better away from
the farm, little girl ,' he said the morning I left ;
' people are beginning to talk, and we can't
shut their mouths if you come running to me

every time your grandmother speaks sharply to
you.
" But why did you not write sooner to your
relatives ? " I asked .
" Because I was angry with my grandmother,
sir, and I thought I would give her a fright. 1

did not bring any clothes or anything and I
hoped- it was a wicked thing I know, sir—but
I hoped she would believe I had made away
with myself. Just lately, however, I began to
consider that if she and grandfather had not
treated me well I was treating them worse ,
so I made up a parcel of some things my
mistress gave me and sent it to them with a
letter . I am glad it reached them safely."
"What time was it when you saw Mr.
Hascot last ? " I enquired .
"About two o'clock, sir. I know that ,
because he was in a hurry. He had got some
news about the bank at Whittleby not being
quite safe, and he said he had too much money
there to run any risk of loss. 'Be a good girl,'
were the last words he said, and he walked off

sharp and quick by the field path to Whittleby.
I stood near the bridge crying for a while . Oh,
sir ! do you think anything ill can have
happened to him ? "
For answer, I only said the whole thing
seemed most mysterious

" He'd never have left his wife and children ,
sir," she went on ; 66 never. He must have been

made away with ."
" Had he any enemies, do you think ? " I
asked.
' No , sir ; not to say enemies. He was called
hard because he would have a day's work for a
day's wage, but no one that ever I heard of had
a grudge against him . Except Miss Gostock and
Mr. Waite, he agreed well with all the people
about. He did not like Miss Gostock, and Mr.

Waite was always borrowing money from him.
Now Mr. Hascot did not mind giving, but he
could not bear lending."
I returned to Nut Bush Farm perfectly
satisfied that Mr. Hascot had been as the girl
expressed the matter-" made away with ." On

the threshold of my house I was met with a
catalogue of disasters. The female servants

had gone in a body ; the male professed a
dislike to be in the stable-yard in the twilight .
Rumour had decided that Nut Bush Farm was
an unlucky place even to pass . The cattle were
out of condition because the men would not go
down the Beech Walk, or turn a single sheep
into the Long Field . Reapers wanted higher
wages. The labourers were looking out for
other service.
"Poor fellow ! this is a nice state of things

for you to come home to," said Lolly, compassionately. "Even the poachers won't venture
into the wood, and the boys don't go
nutting."
" I will clear away the nut trees, and cut
down the wood," I declared, savagely.
" I don't know who you are going to get to
cut them," answered Lolly, " unless you bring
men down from London."
As for Miss Gostock, she only laughed at my

dilemma, and said , " You're a pretty fellow to
be frightened by a ghost. If he was seen at

Chalmont I'd ghost him."
While I was in a state of the most cruel

perplexity, I bethought me of my promise to
Mrs. Waite, and walked over one day to tell her
the result of my enquiries.
" I found her at home, and Mr. Waite, for a
wonder, in the drawing-room. He was not a
bad-looking fellow, and welcomed my visit with
a heartiness which ill accorded with the discourtesy he had shown in never calling upon
me.
Very succinctly I told what I had done, and
where I had been. I mentioned the terms in
which Sally Powner spoke of her benefactor.
We discussed the whole matter fully-the pros
and cons of any one knowing Mr. Hascot had
such a sum of money on his person, and the

possibility of his having been murdered . I
mentioned what I had done about Mrs. Hascot ,
and begged Mr. Waite to afford me his help and
co -operation in raising such a sum of money as
might start the poor lady in some business .
" I'll do all that lies in my power," he said .
heartily, shaking hands at the same time, for I
had risen to go .

" And for my part," I remarked , " it seems to
me there are only two things more I can do to
elucidate the mystery, and those are - root every
nut-tree out of the dell and set the axe to work
in the wood."
There was a second's silence. Then Mrs.

Waite dropped to the floor as if she had
been shot.
As he stooped over her, he and I exchanged
glances, and then I knew. Mr. Hascot had been
murdered, and Mr. Waite was the murderer !

That night I was smoking and Lolly at needlework. The parlour windows were wide open ,
for it was warm, and not a breath of air seemed

stirring.
There was a stillness on everything which
betokened a coming thunderstorm ; and we
both were silent, for my mind was busy and
Lolly's heart anxious. She did not sec, as she

said, how I was to get on at all, and for my
part I could not tell what I ought to do.
All at once something whizzed through the
window furthest from where we sat, and fell
noisily to the floor .
"What is that ? " Lolly cried, springing to
her feet. " Oh, Jack ! what is it ? "
Surprised and shaken, myself, I closed the
windows and drew down the blinds before I
examined the cause of our alarm. It proved to
be an oblong package weighted with a stone.
Unfastening it cautiously, for I did not know
whether it might not contain some explosive, I
came at length to a pocket book- opening the
pocket book I found it stuffed full of bank
notes.
" What are they ? Where can they have come
from ? " exclaimed Lolly.
They are the notes Mr. Hascot drew from
Whittleby bank the day he disappeared ," I
answered with a sort of inspiration , but I took
no notice of Lolly's last questi n.
For good or for evil that was a secret which
lay between myself and the Waites, and which
I have never revealed till now.

If the vessel in which they sailed for New
Zealand had not gone to the bottom. I should
have kept the secret still .
When they were out of the country and the

autumn well advanced, I had the wood
thoroughly examined , and there in a gully ,
covered with a mass of leaves and twigs and
dead branches, we found Mr. Hascot's body.
His watch was in his waistcoat pocket- his
ring on his finger ; save for these possessions
no one could have identified him .
His wife married again about a year afterwards and my brother took Nut Bush Farm off
my hands. He says the place never was
haunted that I never saw Mr. Hascot except
in my own imagination - that the whole thing
originated in a poor state of health and a too
credulous disposition !
I leave the reader to judge between us.
