THE OLD FRENCH GENTLEMAN'S STORY.

I spent the summer of fifty-six at Dieppe--a charming watering-place for
those who can bear an exciting air, and are not very particular about
what they eat. Dieppe, as travellers see it who are hurrying through to
Paris, has a most unpromising aspect, with its muddy basins and third
and fourth rate inns on the quays, but if you are not hastening from the
packet to the train, which the great proportion of people do; you have
only to pass up one of the short streets you will see _en face_, when
you issue from the Custom-house, into which you have been introduced on
landing, and you will find yourself on an esplanade of considerable
extent, with a wide expanse of clear salt water before you, a fine
terrace walk along the shore, and several newly erected hotels opposite
the sea. Of course, there is an _etablissement_ where the usual
amusements are provided; the bathing is excellent, and the company
numerous, for Dieppe is the favourite watering place of the fashionable
world of Paris. The beauty of the place is greatly increased by a
judicious suggestion of the Emperor's. I was told that when he and the
Empress were there in '55, they complained of the absence of flowers on
the esplanade; it was objected that none would grow there; however, he
recommended them to try hollyhocks, china-asters, and poppies, the
latter are the finest I ever saw, and the brilliant and varied masses of
colour produce a very good effect. But they do not feed you well here;
'_La Viande est longue à Dieppe_' as the Garçon of the Hôtel Royal urged
when I objected to the meat which, on application of the knife fell into
strips of pack-thread; the poultry is lean and bad; fish scarce, because
it all goes to London or Paris, by contract, and everything dear.
Nevertheless, Dieppe is a very nice place and the surrounding country is
exceedingly pretty and picturesque.

Some members of the Jockey Club were in the Hôtel Royal, living very
fast indeed. They all bore very aristocratic names and titles, but not
the impress of high blood. How should they? Judging from what I saw,
such a course of profligate self-indulgence, unredeemed, even by good
breeding, must have effaced the stamp, if it ever was there. They
inhabited a pavilion in the cour, and the luxurious repasts that we
constantly saw served to them gave us an awful idea of the amount of
their bill. They played at cards all day--the live long summer day! And
only suspended this amusement when the garçons appeared with their trays
loaded with expensive wines and high-seasoned dishes. One other
amusement they had, which was no less an amusement to us--they had a
drag--a regular English four-in-hand. The cour of the hotel was divided
from the road by iron rails, with a large gate at each extremity for
carriages, so that to an English whip, nothing would have been easier
than to drive in at one of these gates, and round the sweep, and out at
the other; but this the jockey club could never accomplish; when the
gentlemen took the reins from the coachman, if they were in, they could
not get out; and if they were out, they could not get in; so after a few
ambitious attempts and ignominious failures, they submitted to the
inglorious expediency of mounting and dismounting outside the gates.
The French have certainly a remarkable incapacity for riding or driving,
which is strange, as they are active men and have generally light
figures. The Emperor is almost the only Frenchman I ever saw ride well;
but he rides like an English gentleman.

There were many elegantly drest women, of all nations, at Dieppe, but
there was one who particularly attracted my attention, and for whom,
when I afterwards heard her story, I felt an extraordinary interest.
This was the Countess Adeline de-Givry-Monjerac, at least so I will call
her here. When I first saw her she was going down to bathe, attended by
her maid, a grave elderly person, and I was so much struck by her
appearance, that I took the first opportunity of enquiring her name. She
was tall and very pale, with fine, straight features, and an expression
of countenance at once noble and melancholy. Her figure was so good, and
her bearing at once so graceful and dignified, that her unusual height
did not strike you till you saw her standing beside other women. She was
leaning on her maid's arm, and stooped a little, apparently from
feebleness. Her attire was a peignoir of grey taffetas, lined with
blue, and on her head she wore a simple capote of the same. Her age, I
judged to be about forty.

She lodged in the Hôtel Royal, as I did also, but lived entirely in
private; and we only saw her there as she went in and out. Later in the
season, the Duchesse de B., and other persons, arrived from Paris, with
whom she was acquainted, and I often observed her in conversation with
them on the promenade; but her countenance never lost its expression of
melancholy. However, I should have left Dieppe, ignorant of the singular
circumstances I am about to relate, but for an accident.

There was a verandah in the court of the hotel, in which many of us
preferred to breakfast, rather than in the salon; and the verandah not
being very extensive, and the candidates numerous, there was often a
little difficulty in securing a table. One morning, I had just laid my
parasol on the only one I saw vacant, when the garçon warned me that it
was already engaged by _ce monsieur_, indicating an old gentleman, who
was standing with his back to me, in conversation with one of a
sisterhood called _Soeurs de la Providence_, who was soliciting him to
buy some of the lottery tickets she held in her hand; they were for the
_Loterie de Bienfaisance_, the proceeds of which are devoted to
charitable purposes. There are innumerable lotteries of this sort in
France, authorized by the government; and they seem to me to be the
substitute for our magnificent private charities in England, for very
large sums are collected. The tickets only cost a franc. I believe the
_tirage_ is conducted with perfect fairness; and people thus subscribe a
franc for the poor, with the agreeable, but very remote, chance of being
repaid, _même ici bas_, a hundred thousand-fold.

The old gentleman turned his head on hearing my conversation with the
waiter; and, begging I would not derange myself on his account, desired
that I might have the table. Grateful for such an unusual exertion of
politeness--for the politeness of the modern French gentleman does not
include the smallest modicum of self-sacrifice--I modestly declined, and
said, "I would wait." He answered, "by no means." And while we were
engaged in this amicable contest, the waiter brought his breakfast, and
placed it on the table; seeing which, he proposed, that as he was denied
the pleasure of making way for me, I should have my coffee placed on the
other side, and we should breakfast together; an offer which I gladly
accepted.

He was a pleasant, garrulous, old gentleman. Monsieur de Vennacour was
his name, _proprietaire à Paris_, and he told me how he had lost his
fortune by the revolutions, and how he lived now in a _petit apartment_
in the _Rue des Ecuries d'Anjou_, and belonged to a coterie of old
ladies and gentlemen like himself, who had a _petit whisk_ every night
during the winter. While we were talking, the Countess passed us on her
way to the bath; and, happening to catch her eye as she crossed the
court, he bowed to her; whereupon I asked him if he knew her?

"A little," he said; "but I knew her husband well; and her mother's
hotel was next to that my family formerly inhabited. She was a beautiful
woman, Madame de Lignerolles."

"Then, she is dead?" said I.

"No," he replied. "She has retired from the world,--she is in a convent.
C'est une histoire bien triste celle de Madame de Lignerolles et sa
fille, et aussi bien etrange!"

"If it is not a secret, perhaps you will tell it to me?" said I; for I
saw that my new acquaintance desired nothing better. He was a famous
raconteur; and I wish I could tell the story in English as well, and as
dramatically, as he told it to me in French; however, I'll repeat it as
faithfully as I can.

"Madame de Lignerolles née Hermione de Givry, was married early to the
Marquis de Lignerolles, without any particular _penchant_ for or against
the union. The Marquis was a great deal older than herself, but it was
considered a good match, for he was very rich, and his genealogy was
unexceptionable. Not more so, however, than the young lady's; for the de
Givry's heraldic tree had apparently sprung from an acorn floated to the
west by Deucalion himself. At the period of Hermione's marriage her
father, mother, and two brothers, older than herself, still lived. Her
father, the Comte de Givry had been a younger son, and had inherited the
fortune on the death of his elder brother who was killed in a duel the
day before he was to have been married to a woman he passionately
loved. He died by the hand of one of his most intimate friends, with
whom he had never had a word of difference before, and the subject of
quarrel was a peacock! But it was always remarked by the world, that the
eldest scions of the house of Givry were singularly unfortunate; they
seldom prospered in their loves, and if they did, they were sure to die
before their hopes were realised. People in general called it _a
destiny_; others whispered that it was a curse; but the family laughed
contemptuously if any one presumed to hint such a thing in their
presence, and asserted that it was merely _le hazard_; and as the world
in these days is very much disposed to believe in _le hazard_, few
persons sought to penetrate further into the cause of these
misadventures. However, Hermione's elder brother, Etienne, did not
escape his _mauvais destin_; the lady he was engaged to marry was seized
with the smallpox, and, from being a pretty person, became a very ugly
one. During her illness, he had sworn nothing should break his
engagement, and accordingly, disfigured as she was, he married her; but
he had better, for both their sakes, have left it alone. He was
disgusted and she was jealous; they parted within a month after the
wedding, and he was soon after killed by a fall from his horse in the
Bois de Boulogne, and died, leaving no issue. Upon his decease, the
second son, Armande, now the heir, was recalled from Prussia, whither he
had gone with his regiment, but they were on the eve of a battle, and it
was not consistent with his honour to leave till it was over. He was the
first officer that fell in the fight, and thus the hopes of the ancient
family of Givry became centered in the offspring of Hermione. But,
Adeline, the fair object of my admiration, was the sole fruit of the
marriage, and great were the lamentations of the old Count and Countess
that the continuation of this noble stock rested on so frail a tenure,
for the child was exceedingly delicate; she outgrew her strength, and
for some years was supposed to be _poitrinaire_. But, either, thanks to
the wonderful care that was bestowed upon her, or to an inherent good
constitution, she survived this trying period and grew up to
marriageable years, rewarding all the solicitude of her family by her
charms and amiability. She was not so beautiful as her mother had
been--and even was still--but she was quite sufficiently handsome; and
there was so much grace in her movements and her manners, and she had
such a noble and pure expression of countenance--a true indication of
her character--that Adeline de Lignerolle's perfections were universally
admitted by the men, and scarcely denied by the women, insomuch, that
these attractions, added to her lineage and fortune, caused her to be
looked upon as one of the most desirable matches in the kingdom.

"Her father, the old Marquis de Lignerolles-Givry--for he was
constrained to adopt the latter name--had died previous to this period;
and as her grandfather Monsieur de Givry undertook the affair of her
marriage, numerous were the propositions he privately received, and
frequent the closettings and consultations on the subject. In these
cases, the more people have, the more they require; and as Adeline had
better blood, and more money, than most people, the family exigence in
these respects was considerable, and the difficulties that lay in the
way of procuring a suitable alliance, manifold.

"She had reached the age of seventeen, and this important point was
still unsettled, when she and her mother went to visit a relative of
Madame de Lignerolles, who was united to a Portuguese nobleman. On her
marriage, she had followed her husband to his own country; but he was
now on a mission to the French court; and the Paris season being over,
they had taken a château on the Loire, for the summer months. There were
other young people in the house, and all sorts of amusements going on,
which no one seemed to enjoy, at first, more than Adeline de Givry; but,
at the end of a fortnight, a change began to be observable in her
spirits and demeanour, which did not escape the observation of her young
companions; and by their means awakened the attention of Madame de
Saldanha, their hostess; who hinted to her cousin, Madame de
Lignerolles, that Adeline was falling in love with the young Count de la
Cruz; at least, such was the opinion of her own daughter, Isabella;
adding, that if so abnormal a circumstance, as a young lady choosing her
own husband _was_ to happen, she could not have fixed on a more
desirable individual than Rodriguez de la Cruz,--a man unexceptionable
in person, mind, and manners whose genealogy might vie with that of the
De Givry's themselves; and whose name was associated with distinguished
deeds of arms during the Holy Wars.

"But this indulgent view of the case was not shared by Madame de
Lignerolles. She seemed exceedingly surprised and incredulous; but when
the other insisted on the probability of such a result, since the two
young people had been residing for six weeks under the same roof; and
pointed out to the lady that the assiduous attentions paid by De la Cruz
to herself were, doubtless, not without an object, suggesting that that
object was to gain her interest in his favour, she evinced so much
displeasure and indignation, that Madame de Saldanha apologized and gave
up the point, saying, she was very likely mistaken, and that it was a
mere fancy of Isabella's.

"Nevertheless, these suspicions were perfectly well founded. De la Cruz
was waiting for his father's consent to make his proposals in form; and
this consent was only delayed till the old gentleman had time to come to
Paris and make the needful inquiries regarding fortune and family; about
which, he considered himself entitled to be quite as particular as the
De Givry's.

"It was remarked that, from this time, Madame de Lignerolles observed
her daughter with a jealous eye, and sought every means of keeping her
away from the young Portuguese; added to which, as it afterwards
appeared, she severely reproved Adeline for what she called the levity
of her conduct.

"Moreover, she hastened her departure; and in a few days after the
conversation with Madama de Saldanha, took her leave; alleging, that her
presence was required by her father, in Paris. To Paris, however, she
did not immediately go. There was in Brittany an ancient château
belonging to the family, which, for some reason or other, they very
rarely visited; it was supposed, because they possessed others more
agreeable. At all events, whatever might be the cause, it was known that
the old count had a mortal aversion to this residence, insomuch, that
his daughter had never been there since her infancy; when something very
unpleasant was reported to have happened to her mother's eldest brother
shortly before his death. Thither, however, they now travelled with all
speed, accompanied only by two maids and a man.

"Madame de Lignerolles was a person, in whom the maternal instinct had
never been largely developed. She was even, still, at eight-and-thirty,
a beautiful woman; and it was generally suspected, that she did not feel
at all delighted at having this tall, handsome daughter, to proclaim her
age; and, perhaps shortly, make her a grandmother. But, her manner to
Adeline--usually, more indifferent than harsh--now assumed a new
character; she seemed engrossed with her own thoughts; was cold and
constrained; spoke little; and when she did, it was with a gravity truly
portentous.

"They were not unexpected at Château Noir--for such was the ominous name
of the old castle, which frowned upon them in the gloom of a dusky
November evening; but instead of the liveried servants, by whom they
were accustomed to be greeted, an elderly housekeeper, a concierge, and
a few rustic menials, appeared to be its only inhabitants. However, they
had done their best to make ready for this visit; fires were lighted,
and dinner was prepared and served, accompanied by plenty of apologies
for its not being better.

"The evening passed in silence; they were tired, and went early to bed.
The next two days, Mdme. de Lignerolles kept her room, and Adeline
strolled about the neglected grounds, occupied with her own thoughts of
the future, not without wondering a little at her mother's mysterious
behaviour. On the third day, she was summoned to the presence of Mdme.
de Lignerolles, who received and bade her be seated, with the same
significant solemnity, and then proceeded to inform her that she had a
most painful secret to communicate--a secret that had long prest upon
her conscience, but which she could never find resolution to disclose;
that lately, however, her confessor had so strongly urged her to perform
this act of duty, that, with the greatest reluctance, she had resolved
to obey his injunctions--her doing so having become more imperative from
the fact of Adeline's having arrived at marriageable years, as in the
event of any alliance presenting itself, honour would constrain her to
speak. The dreadful secret was, that Adeline was not her child; that the
nurse who had had the charge of her infancy, confessed on her
death-bed, that she had substituted her own infant for the countess's,
that the latter had subsequently died, but that she could not leave the
world in peace without avowing her crime.

"'I did not believe her,' said Mdme. de Lignerolles, 'but she reminded
me that my child had a mole under the left breast, which you, Adeline,
have not. This cruel change was effected during our absence from France.
Shortly after my confinement, I was ordered to spend the winter in
Italy, and the child was left to the care of my father and mother, who
by that time had nearly lost her eye-sight. To this circumstance, and
the little notice men usually take of infants, the woman trusted to
escape detection. Of course, I could not discern the difference between
the child I had left and the one I found. I had no suspicion; and
whatever alterations I remarked, I attributed to the lapse of
time--though I must own that maternal instinct offered a strong
confirmation of the nurse's confession. While I believed you my own
offspring, I had none of those tender yearnings which I have heard other
women speak of, and I often reproached myself for the want of them.
However, I endeavoured to do my duty by you, and no pains or expense
were spared on your education, which was already nearly completed, when
I became acquainted with this dreadful secret, of which, when the nurse
died, I was the sole possessor. But, aware of the intense grief such a
disclosure would occasion my husband, who was then in exceedingly bad
health, I determined during his lifetime to preserve silence. After his
death, I ought to have exerted courage to speak; but my mother adored
you--it would have killed her. She is now gone, and there is only your
grandfather left. I well know the suffering it will cause him, and,
believe me, I feel for _you_--but my duty is plain. You will be amply
provided for--' but ere the sentence could be finished, Adeline, who had
sat like a statue, listening to this harangue, with wondering eyes and
open lips, suddenly rose and rushed out of the room. That she was not
Mdme. de Lignerolles' daughter caused her little grief, nor was she of
an age very highly to appreciate the position and splendours she was
losing; but she thought of her grandfather, whom she really loved; she
thought of De la Cruz, and her heart filled with anguish.

"She was not pursued to her retreat; the whole day she kept her chamber,
and Mdme. de Lignerolles kept hers. On the following morning, a note was
handed to her from Mdme. de L., announcing that she was starting for
Paris to communicate this distressing intelligence to M. de Givry; and
desiring Adeline to remain where she was, under the care of Mdme.
Vertot, the housekeeper, till she received further directions; assuring
her, at the same time, that everything should be done for her happiness
and welfare, and, in due time, a suitable _parti_ be provided for her."

Just as Monsieur de Venacour reached this point of his story, Madame de
Montjerac returned from bathing, and if I looked at her with interest
before, it may be well imagined how much more she inspired now.

"How extraordinary!" I said, as my eyes rested on her noble countenance
and majestic figure, "that that distinguished-looking woman is really
the daughter of a good-for-nothing servant; and yet I should have said,
if ever there was a person who bore the unmistakeable impress of
aristocracy, it is she."

He nodded his head, and significantly lifting his fore-finger to the
side of his nose, said "Ecoutez!" and forthwith proceeded with his
narration as follows.

"On Madam de Lignerolle's arrival in Paris, she sent for her father,
threw herself at his feet, and with tears and lamentations, disclosed
this dreadful secret, which, she said, had been making the misery of her
life for the last two years; but whatever distress it occasioned her, it
was quite evident that that of Monsieur de Givry was much more severe.
He was wounded on all sides; his pride, his love of lineage, his
personal affection for Adeline, and his horror of the notoriety such an
extraordinary event must naturally acquire. So powerful were the two
last sentiments, that for a moment he even entertained the idea of
accepting Adeline as the heiress of Givry, and concealing the whole
affair from her and every body else; but to this proposition his
daughter objected that the poor girl was already in possession of the
truth, and that it was impossible to make her a party to such a
deception.

"'Then,' said Monsieur de Givry, 'she must die! There is no other
expedient.'

"'Mais, non, mon pere!' cried Hermione, starting from her seat,
evidently taken quite aback by this unexpected proposition.

"De Givry waved his hand with a melancholy smile; 'Enfant!' he said. 'Do
you think I intend to become an assassin? God forbid!' And then he
explained that he did not mean a real but a fictitious death, for which
purpose she must be removed to a foreign country, under the pretence of
the re-appearance of pulmonary symptoms; that a husband must be found
for her who would bind himself to leave France for ever, and to keep
this secret, under pain of forfeiting the very handsome allowance he
proposed to make them; for the safe conduct of which part of the
business, it would be necessary to confide their unhappy circumstances
to the family physician and lawyer. In the meantime, as these
arrangements could not be made in a day, it was decided that Adeline
should remain where she was till all was ready for their completion.

"'I shall take her out of the country myself,' he said, 'and you must
accompany us. Every consideration must be shown her; she is the victim,
and not the criminal.'

"In the course of this conversation, as may be imagined, Monsieur de
Givry more than once lamented the extinction of his race; his daughter,
however, on that point, offered him some consolation, by suggesting that
she was still a young woman, and that for her father's sake, although
she had never intended to marry again, she would consent to do so
provided she could meet with an unobjectionable _parti_.

"Shortly after this melancholy disclosure, De la Cruz arrived with his
father in Paris; where they were so well received by Madame de
Lignerolles, that the old gentleman, fascinated by her beauty and
manners, expressed his surprise that his son had not fallen in love with
the mother, instead of the daughter. However, at his son's desire, he
made formal propositions for the young lady's hand; which, to the
surprise of the young man, Monsieur de Livry said, was already promised;
adding, however, that his granddaughter's state of health would,
probably, retard the union; the physicians having discovered that the
seeds of consumption were beginning to develope themselves in her
constitution, and, consequently, recommended her removal to a warmer
climate.

"In the meanwhile, the poor young girl was pining alone in the dreary,
old château, with no companion but her own maid,--receiving no
intelligence, and ignorant of her future fate. All she knew was, that
she never could be the wife of Rodriguez de la Cruz. She supposed, that
when he made his proposals, he would be informed of the circumstances
above related, and that she should never hear more of him. But, in this,
she was mistaken. About three weeks after her mother had left her, a
letter from him arrived, saying, that he had succeeded in discovering
where she was, and that he had lost no time in writing to inform her of
the ill fortune that had attended his proposals; adding, that if her
sentiments continued unchanged, he would come to Château Noir,
accompanied by his own chaplain, who would unite them; after which, he
had no doubt, it would be easy to obtain her grandfather's forgiveness;
he, probably, having only refused his consent because he was trammelled
by a prior engagement.

"But this letter was addressed to Mademoiselle de Lignerolles; and it
was evident, from the whole tenour of it, that the writer knew nothing
of the change in her fortunes. Honour forbad her to take advantage of
this ignorance; but the struggle threw her into agonies of grief. She
passed a miserable day, and retired early to bed; where she might
indulge her tears, and avoid the curious eyes of her maid, who was
greatly perplexed at these unusual proceedings. Sleep was far from her
eyes, and her mind was busy, framing the answer she had to write on the
following day to De la Cruz, when she heard a knock at her chamber door.
'Come in,' she said; not doubting that it was her maid, or Madame
Vertot. Immediately, she heard the handle turned, and she saw
in a mirror that was opposite, the door open, and a miserable,
haggard-looking woman enter. She was attired in rags, and she led by the
hand two naked children. They approached the foot of the bed, and the
woman held out a letter, as if she wished Adeline to take it, which she
made an effort to do; but a sudden horror seized her, and she uttered a
scream which roused her maid who slept in the adjoining apartment. She
was found insensible; but the usual applications restored her; and,
without telling what had happened, she requested the servant to pass the
rest of the night in her room. The next day, she felt very poorly in
consequence of this horrid vision; but she wrote to De la Cruz such a
letter, as she felt her altered circumstances demanded. She could not
bring herself to avow that she was the daughter of Robertine Collet; but
sent him, simply, a cold, haughty refusal, which precluded all
possibility of any further advances. The next day, she changed her room,
and she saw no more of the frightful apparition.

"She had done her duty to De la Cruz, but she was miserable; and when,
shortly afterwards, her grandfather arrived, accompanied by Dr. Pecher,
the family physician, they found her exceedingly ill, and confined to
her bed. This Dr. Pecher was a clever and worthy man; and having been
necessarily made the confidant of the painful secret, it had been
privately arranged between him and Monsieur de Givry, that he should
marry the girl; and that they should, thereupon, quit the
country,--Monsieur de G. making ample provision for their future
maintenance.

"But the main thing needful, was to restore her to health; and in the
course of his attendance on her, he learnt from her maid how she had
been first attacked; and then elicited from herself, the cause of her
alarm. Of course, he looked upon the vision as an illusion; in short,
the premonitory symptoms of her illness,--and mentioned it in that
light, to Monsieur de Givry. But to his surprise, Monsieur de G. took a
different view of the matter; and hastening to Adeline's room, he made
her repeat to him the exact description of what she had seen; after
which, he started immediately for Paris, without explaining the motive
of this sudden departure.

"On his arrival, he presented himself before his daughter, and taxed her
with having deceived him; what her motive could be he was unable to
imagine; he supposed it to be pecuniary, and that she did not wish to
part with the large portion to be paid to Adeline on her marriage; but
he believed that the traditionary apparition of his family would not
have appeared to any one who was not a member of it; and that therefore
the girl, who had accurately described the appearance of these figures,
of which the young people were always kept in entire ignorance, must be
actually his granddaughter.

"Madame de Lignerolles persisted in her story, and all she could be
brought to own was, that it was possible, the woman, Collett, had
deceived her. Strong in his own opinion, Monsieur de Givry returned to
Château Noir, Dr. Pecher having recommended the young lady's removal;
and after writing his daughter a very urgent and serious letter, he
started on a tour of a few weeks, with Adeline, for the recovery of her
health.

"No answer reached him for some time, but at the end of a month, he
received one, acknowledging the cruel deception she had practiced,
alleging as her excuse, an ardent passion for Rodriguez de la Cruz; and
the wish to detach him from Adeline, and marry him herself. But she had
failed, and he was on the point of marriage with a lady selected for him
by his father. The letter concluded by the announcement, that she was
about to retire to a convent where she should, in due time, take the
veil.

"Monseiur de Givry assumed this to be a mere ebullition of shame and
disappointment; but she kept her word. Mademoiselle de Lignerolles, some
years later, married the Baron de Montjerac, from whom, said Monsieur de
Venacour, I heard the story. By him she had two sons; but the constant
apprehension that in the eldest will be fulfilled the _mauvais destin_
entailed on the heirs of Givry, preys, it is said, on her mind and
health, and is the cause of the expression of melancholy for which her
fine countenance is so remarkable.

"Some centuries earlier, when power was irresponsible, Count Armand de
Givry, a cruel and oppressive lord of the soil, who then inhabited
Château Noir, had put to death one of his serfs, and turned his wife and
two children out of doors in inclement weather, forbidding any of his
tenants to shelter or assist them. The children were without clothes,
and the three poor creatures perished from cold and starvation, but
leaving behind them a terrible retribution, in the form of a curse
pronounced by the wretched woman's lips in her dying agonies, which,
strange to say, seems to have been pretty literally fulfilled.

"When they were nearly at the last extremity, some good Christian had
had the courage to write a pathetic letter for her, which, however, it
was necessary she should deliver herself, as no one else durst do it.
She watched her opportunity; concealed herself in the park, and waylaid
the Count as he returned one day from shooting. But instead of taking
the letter, he set his dogs upon her, who would have torn her to pieces,
but for the courageous interference of one of his followers.

"The curse ran, that never should the heir of Givry prosper till one of
them took the letter; and that the last scion of the house should
_Renier le croix et se vouer à l'Enfer_.

"Since that, it was said that, no eldest son or daughter of the house of
Givry had lived and prospered, whilst the letter, in some way or other
had been offered to every one of them; but as the cadets of the family
lived and married and prospered like other people, they did not choose
to believe in the story; at least, whatever their secret thoughts on the
subject may have been, they publicly threw ridicule on the tradition,
whenever it was alluded to; but Monsieur de Givry had sufficient faith
in it to believe, that if Adeline had been the daughter of Robertine
Collet, she would never have been visited by the ghost of Madeleine
Dogue and her children."
