CRABB RAVINE.

I.

"Yes! Halloa! What is it?"

To be wakened up short by a knocking, or some other noise, in the night,
is enough to make you start up in bed, and stare round in confusion. The
room was dark, barring the light that always glimmers in at the window
on a summer's night, and I listened and waited for more. Nothing came:
it was all as silent as the grave.

We were staying at Crabb Cot. I had gone to bed at half-past nine, dead
tired after a day's fishing. The Squire and Tod were away: Mrs.
Todhetley went over to the Coneys' after tea, and did not seem in a
hurry to come back. They fried one of the fish I had caught for my
supper; and after that, there being no one to speak to, I went to bed.

It was a knocking that had wakened me out of my sleep: I was sure of
that. And it sounded exactly as though it were at the window--which was
very improbable. Calling out again to know who was there, and what
was wanted--though not very loudly, for the children slept within
earshot--and getting no answer, I lay down again, and was all but asleep
when the noise came a second time.

It was at the dining-room window, right underneath mine. There could be
no mistake about it. The ceilings of the old-fashioned house were low;
the windows were very near each other, and mine was down at the top. I
thought it time to jump out of bed, and take a look out.

Well, I was surprised! Instead of its being the middle of the night,
it must be quite early still; for the lamp was yet alight in the
dining-room. It was a cosy kind of room, with a bow window jutting on to
the garden, of which the middle compartment opened to the ground, as
French windows do. My window was a bow also, and close above the other.
Throwing it up, I looked out.

There was not a soul to be seen. Yet the knocking could not have been
from within, for the inside shutters were closed: they did not reach to
the top panes, and the lamplight shone through them on the mulberry
tree. As I leaned out, wondering, the crazy old clock at North Crabb
Church began to tell the hour. I counted the strokes, one by one--ten of
them. Only ten o'clock! And I thought I had been asleep half the night.

All in a moment I caught sight of some one moving slowly away. He was
keeping in the shade; close to the shrubs that encircled the lawn, as if
not caring to be seen. A short, thin man, in dark clothes and round
black felt hat. Who he was, and what he wanted, was more than I could
imagine. It could not be a robber. Robbers don't come knocking at houses
before people have gone to bed.

The small side-gate opened, and Mrs. Todhetley came in. Old Coney's farm
was only a stone's-throw off, and she had run home alone. We people
in the country think nothing of being abroad alone at night. The man
emerged from the shade, and placed himself right in her path, on the
gravel walk. They stood there together. I could see him better now:
there was no moon, but the night was light; and it flashed into my mind
that he was the same man I had seen Mrs. Todhetley with in the morning,
as I went across the fields, with my rod and line. She was at the stile,
about to descend into the Ravine, when he came up from it, and accosted
her. He was a stranger; wearing a seedy, shabby black coat; and I had
wondered what he wanted. They were still talking together when I got out
of sight, for I turned to look.

Not long did they stand now. The gentleman went away; she came hastening
on with her head down, a soft wool kerchief thrown over her cap. In all
North Crabb, no one was so fearful of catching face-ache as Mrs.
Todhetley.

"Who was it?" I called out, when she was under the window: which seemed
to startle her considerably, for she gave a spring back, right on to the
grass.

"Johnny! how you frightened me! What are you looking out at?"

"At that fellow who has just taken himself off. Who is he?"

"I do believe you have on nothing but your nightshirt! You'll be sure to
take cold. Shut the window down, and get into bed."

Four times over, in all, had I to ask about the man before I got an
answer. Now it was the nightshirt, now catching cold, now the open
window and the damp air. She always wanted to be as tender with us as
though we were chickens.

"The man that met me in the path?" she got to, at length. "He made some
excuse for being here: was not sure whose house it was, I think he said:
had turned in by mistake to the wrong one."

"That's all very fine; but, not being sure, he ought to mind his
manners. He came rapping at the dining-room window like anything, and it
woke me up. Had you been at home, sitting there, good mother, you might
have been startled out of your seven senses."

"So I should, Johnny. The Coneys would not let me come away: they had
friends with them. Good-night, dear. Shut down that window."

She went on to the side-door. I put down the window, opened it at the
top, and let the white curtain drop before it. It was an hour or two
before I got to sleep again, and I had the man and the knocking in my
thoughts all the time.

"Don't say anything about it in the house, Johnny," Mrs. Todhetley said
to me, in the morning. "It might alarm the children." So I promised her
I would not.

Tod came home at mid-day, not the Squire: and the first thing I did was
to tell him. I wouldn't have broken faith with the mother for the world;
not even for Tod; but it never entered my mind that she wished me to
keep it a close secret, excepting from those, servants or others, who
might be likely to repeat it before Hugh and Lena. I cautioned Tod.

"Confound his impudence!" cried Tod. "Could he not be satisfied with
disturbing the house at the door at night, but he must make for the
window? I wish I had been at home."

Crabb Ravine lay to the side of our house, beyond the wide field. It
was a regular wilderness. The sharp descent began in that three-cornered
grove, of which you've heard before, for it was where Daniel Ferrar
hanged himself; and the wild, deep, mossy dell, about as wide as an
ordinary road, went running along below, soft, green and damp. Towering
banks, sloping backwards, rose on either side; a mass of verdure in
summer; of briars, brown and tangled, in winter. Dwarf shrubs, tall
trees, blackberry and nut bushes, sweet-briar and broom clustered there
in wild profusion. Primroses and violets peeped up when spring came in;
blue bells and cowslips, dog-roses, woodbine, and other sweet flowers,
came later. Few people would descend except by the stile opposite our
house and the proper zigzag path leading down the side bank, for a fall
might have broken limbs, besides bringing one's clothes to grief.
No houses stood near it, except ours and old Coney's; and the field
bordering it just here on this side belonged to Squire Todhetley. If you
went down the zigzag path, turned to the right, walked along the Ravine
some way, and then up another zigzag on the opposite side, you soon came
to Timberdale, a small place in itself, but our nearest post-town. The
high-road to Timberdale, winding past our house from South Crabb, was
twice the distance, so that people might sometimes be seen in the Ravine
by day; but no one cared to go near it in the evening, as it had the
reputation of being haunted. A mysterious light might sometimes be
observed there at night, dodging about the banks, where it would be
rather difficult for ordinary human beings to walk: some said it was a
will-o'-the-wisp, and some said a ghost. It was difficult to get even a
farm-servant to go the near way to Timberdale after dark.

One morning, when I was running through the Ravine with Tod in search of
Tom Coney, we came slap against a man, who seemed to be sneaking there,
for he turned short off, into the underwood, to hide himself. I knew him
by his hat.

"Tod, that's the man," I whispered.

"What man, Johnny?"

"The one who came knocking at the window three nights ago."

"Oh!" said Tod, carelessly. "He looks like a fellow who comes out with
begging petitions."

It might have been an hour after that. We had come up from the Ravine,
on our side of it, not having seen or spoken to a soul, except Luke
Mackintosh. Tod told me to stay and waylay Coney if he made his
appearance, whilst he went again to the farm in search of him.
Accordingly, I was sitting on the fence (put there to hinder the cattle
and sheep from getting over the brink of the Ravine), throwing stones
and whistling, when I saw Mrs. Todhetley cross the stile to go down the
zigzag. She did not see me: the fence could hardly be gained for trees,
and I was hidden.

Just because I had nothing to do, I watched her as she went; tall, thin,
and light in figure, she could spin along nearly as quick as we. The
zigzag path went in and out, sloping along the bank until it brought
itself to the dell at a spot a good bit beyond me as I looked down,
finishing there with a high, rough step. Mrs. Todhetley took it with a
spring.

What next! In one moment the man with the black coat and hat had
appeared from somewhere, and placed himself in front of her parasol.
Before I could quit the place, and leap down after her, a conviction
came over me that the meeting was not accidental: and I rubbed my eyes
in wonder, and thought I must be dreaming.

The summer air was clear as crystal; not a bee's hum just then disturbed
its stillness. Detached words ascended from where they stood; and now
and again a whole sentence. She kept looking each way as if afraid to be
seen; and so did he, for that matter. The colloquy seemed to be about
money. I caught the word two or three times; and Mrs. Todhetley said it
was "impossible." "I must, and I will have it," came up distinctly from
him in answer.

"What's _that_, Johnny?"

The interruption came from Tod. All my attention absorbed in them, he
stood at my elbow before I knew he was near. When I would have answered,
he suddenly put his hand upon my mouth for silence. His face had a proud
anger on it as he looked down.

Mrs. Todhetley seemed to be using entreaty to the man, for she clasped
her hands in a piteous manner, and then turned to ascend the zigzag. He
followed her, talking very fast. As to me, I was in a regular sea of
marvel, understanding nothing. Our heads were hardly to be distinguished
from the bushes, even if she had looked up.

"No," she said, turning round upon him; and they were near us then, half
way up the path, so that every word was audible. "You must not venture
to come to the house, or near the house. I would not have Mr. Todhetley
know of this for the world: for your sake as well as for his."

"Todhetley's not at home," was the man's answer: and Tod gave a growl as
he heard it.

"If he is not, his son is," said Mrs. Todhetley. "It would be all the
same; or worse."

"His son's here," roared out passionate Tod. "What the deuce is the
meaning of this, sir?"

The man shot down the path like an arrow. Mrs. Todhetley--who had been
walking on, seeming not to have caught the words, or to know whose the
voice was, or where it came from--gazed round in all directions, her
countenance curiously helpless. She ran up the rest of the zigzag, and
went swiftly home across the field. Tod disentangled himself from the
brambles, and drew a long breath.

"I think it's time we went now, Johnny." It was not often he spoke in
that tone. He had always been at war tacitly with Mrs. Todhetley, and
was not likely to favour her now. Generous though he was by nature,
there could be no denying that he took up awful prejudices.

"It is something about money, Tod."

"I don't care what it is about--the fellow has no business to be
prowling here, on my father's grounds; and he _shan't_ be, without my
knowing what it's for. I'll watch madam's movements."

"What do you think it can mean?"

"Mean! Why, that the individual is some poor relation of hers, come to
drain as much of my father's money out of her as he can. _She_ is the
one to blame. I wonder how she dare encourage him!"

"Perhaps she can't help herself."

"Not help herself? Don't show yourself a fool, Johnny. An honest-minded,
straightforward woman would appeal to my father in any annoyance of
this sort, or to me, in his absence, and say 'Here's So-and-so come down
upon us, asking for help, can we give it him?'--and there's no doubt the
Squire _would_ give it him; he's soft enough for anything."

It was of no use contending. I did not see it quite in that light, but
Tod liked his own opinion. He threw up his head with a haughty jerk.

"You have tried to defend Mrs. Todhetley before, in trifling matters,
Johnny; don't attempt it now. Would any good woman, say any _lady_, if
you will, subject herself to this kind of thing?--hold private meetings
with a man--allow him to come tapping at her sitting-room window at
night? No; not though he were her own brother."

"Tod, it may be her brother. She would never do anything wrong
willingly."

"Shut up, Johnny. She never had a brother."

Of course I shut up forthwith, and went across the field by Tod's side
in silence, his strides wide and indignant, his head up in the air. Mrs.
Todhetley was hearing Lena read when we got in, and looked as if she had
never been out that morning.

                 *       *       *       *       *

Some days went on. The man remained near, for he was seen occasionally,
and the servants began to talk. One remarked upon him, wondering who he
was; another remarked upon him, speculating on what he did there. In a
quiet country place, a dodging stranger excites curiosity, and this one
dodged about as much as ever the ghostly light did. If you caught sight
of him in the three-cornered plantation, he vanished forthwith to appear
next in the Ravine; if he stood peering out from the trees on the bank,
and found himself observed, the next minute he'd be crouching amongst
the broom on the other side.

This came to be observed, and was thought strange, naturally; Hannah,
who was often out with Hugh and Lena, often saw him, and talked to the
other servants. One evening, when we were finishing dinner, the glass
doors of the bow-window being open, Hannah came back with the children.
They ran across the grass-plat after the fawn--one we had, just
then--and Hannah sat down in the porch of the side-door to wait. Old
Thomas had just drawn the slips from the table, and went through the
passage to the side-door to shake them.

"I say," cried Hannah's voice, "I saw that man again."

"Where?" asked Thomas, between his shakes of the linen.

"In the old place--the Ravine. He was sitting on the stile at the top of
the zigzag, as cool as might be."

"Did you speak to him? I should, if I came across the man; and ask what
his business might be in these parts."

"I didn't speak to him," returned Hannah. "I'd rather not. There's no
knowing the answer one might get, Thomas, or what he's looking after. He
spoke to the children."

"What did he say to them?"

"Asked if they'd go away with him to some beautiful coral islands over
the sea, and catch pretty birds, and parrots, and monkeys. He called
them by their names, too--'Hugh' and 'Lena.' I should like to know how
he got hold of _them_."

"I can't help thinking that he belongs to them engineering folk who come
spying for no good on people's land: the Squire won't like it if they
cut a railroad through here," said Thomas; and the supposition did not
appear to please Hannah.

"Why you must be as silly as a turkey, old Thomas! Engineers have no
need to hide themselves as if they were afraid of being took up for
murder. He has about as much the cut of an engineer as you have, and no
more: they don't go about looking like Methodist parsons run to seed.
_My_ opinion is that he's something of that sort."

"A Methodist parson!"

"No; not anything half so respectable. If I spoke out my thoughts,
though, I dare say you'd laugh at me."

"Not I," said Thomas. "Make haste. I forgot to put the claret jug on the
table."

"Then I've got it in my head that he is one of them seducing Mormons.
They appear in neighbourhoods without the smallest warning, lie partly
concealed by day, and go abroad at night, persuading all the likely
women and girls to join their sect. My sister told me about it in a
letter she wrote me only three days ago. There has been a Mormon down
there; he called himself a saint, she says; and when he went finally
away he took fifteen young women with him. Fifteen, Thomas! and after
only three weeks' persuasion! It's as true as that you've got that
damask cloth in your hand."

Nothing further was heard for a minute. Then Thomas spoke. "Has the man
here been seen talking with young women?"

"Who is to know? They take care _not_ to be seen; that's their craft.
And so you see, Thomas, I'd rather steer clear of the man, and not give
him the opportunity of trying his arts on me. I can tell him it's not
Hannah Baber that would be cajoled off to a barbarous desert by a man
who had fifteen other wives beside! Lord help the women for geese! Miss
Lena" (raising her voice), "don't you tear about after the fawn like
that; you'll put yourself into a pretty heat."

"I'd look him up when I came home, if I were the Squire," said Thomas,
who evidently took it all gravely in. "We don't want a Mormon on the
place."

"If he were not a Mormon, which I'm pretty sure he is, I should say he
was a kidnapper of children," went on Hannah. "After we had got past him
over so far, he managed to 'tice Hugh back to the stile, gave him a
sugar-stick, and said he'd take him away if he'd go. It struck me he'd
like to kidnap him."

Tod, sitting at the foot of the table in the Squire's place, had
listened to all this deliberately. Mrs. Todhetley, opposite to him, her
back to the light, had tried, in a feeble manner, once or twice, to
drown the sounds by saying something. But when urgently wanting to
speak, we often can't do so; and her efforts died away helplessly. She
looked miserably uncomfortable, and seemed conscious of Tod's feeling in
the matter; and when Hannah wound up with the bold assertion touching
the kidnapping of Hugh, she gave a start of alarm, which left her face
white.

"Who is this man that shows himself in the neighbourhood?" asked Tod,
putting the question to her in a slow, marked manner, his dark eyes,
stern then, fixed on hers.

"Johnny, those cherries don't look ripe. Try the summer apples."

It was of no use at any time trying to put aside Tod. Before I had
answered her that the cherries were ripe enough for me, Tod began at her
again.

"Can you tell me who he is?"

"Dear me, no," she faintly said. "I can't tell you anything about it."

"Nor what he wants?"

"No. Won't you take some wine, Joseph?"

"I shall make it my business to inquire, then," said Tod, disregarding
the wine and everything else. "The first time I come across the man,
unless he gives me a perfectly satisfactory answer as to what he may be
doing here on our land, I'll horse-whip him."

Mrs. Todhetley put the trembling fingers of her left hand into the
finger-glass, and dried them. I don't believe she knew what she was
about more than a baby.

"The man is nothing to you, Joseph. Why should you interfere with him?"

"I shall interfere because my father is not here to do it," he answered,
in his least compromising of tones. "An ill-looking stranger has no
right to be prowling mysteriously amongst us at all. But when it comes
to knocking at windows at night, to waylaying--people--in solitary
places, and to exciting comments from the servants, it is time some one
interfered to know the reason of it."

I am sure he had been going to say _you_; but with all his prejudice
he never was insolent to Mrs. Todhetley, when face to face; and he
substituted "people." Her pale blue eyes had the saddest light in them
you can well conceive, and yet she tried to look as though the matter
did not concern her. Old Thomas came in with the folded damask slips,
little thinking he and Hannah had been overheard, put them in the
drawer, and set things straight on the sideboard.

"What time tea, ma'am?" he asked.

"Any time," answered Mrs. Todhetley. "I am going over to Mr. Coney's,
but not to stay. Or perhaps you'll go for me presently, Johnny, and ask
whether Mrs. Coney has come home," she added, as Thomas left the room.

I said I'd go. And it struck me that she must want Mrs. Coney very
particularly, for this would make the fifth time I had gone on the same
errand within a week. On the morning following that rapping at the
window, Mrs. Coney had news that Mrs. West, her married daughter, was
ill, and she started at once by the rail to Worcester to visit her.

"I think I'll go and look for the fellow now," exclaimed Tod, rising
from his seat and making for the window. But Mrs. Todhetley rose too, as
one in mortal fright, and put herself in his way.

"Joseph," she said, "I have no authority over you; you know that I have
never attempted to exercise any since I came home to your father's
house; but I must ask you to respect my wishes now."

"What wishes?"

"That you will refrain from seeking this stranger: that you will not
speak to or accost him in any way, should you and he by chance meet. I
have good reasons for asking it." Tod stood stock-still, neither saying
Yes nor No; only biting his lips in the anger he strove to keep down.

"Oh, very well," said he, going back to his seat. "Of course, as you put
it in this light, I have no alternative. A night's delay cannot make
much difference, and my father will be home to-morrow to act for
himself."

"You must not mention it to your father, Joseph. You must keep it _from_
him."

"I shall tell him as soon as he comes home."

"Tell him what? What is it that you suspect? What would you tell him?"

Tod hesitated. He had spoken in random heat; and found, on
consideration, he was without a case. He could not complain to his
father of _her_: in spite of his hasty temper, he was honourable as the
day. Her apparent intimacy with the man would also tie his tongue as to
_him_, whomsoever he might be.

"You must be quite aware that it is not a pleasant thing, or a proper
thing, to have this mysterious individual encouraged here," he said,
looking at her.

"And you think I encourage him, Joseph?"

"Well, it seems that you--that you must know who he is. I saw you
talking with him one day in the Ravine," continued Tod, disdaining not
to be perfectly open, now it had come to an explanation. "Johnny was
with me. If he is a relative of yours, why, of course----"

"He is no relative of mine, Joseph." And Tod opened his eyes wide to
hear the denial. It was the view he had taken all along.

"Then why do you suffer him to annoy you?--and I am sure he does do it.
Let me deal with him. I'll soon ascertain what his business may be."

"But that is just what you must not do," she said, seeming to speak out
the truth in very helplessness, like a frightened child. "You must leave
him in my hands, Joseph: I shall be able, I dare say, to--to--get rid of
him shortly."

"_You_ know what he wants?"

"Yes, I am afraid I do. It is quite my affair; and you must take no more
notice of it: above all, you must not say anything to your father."

How much Tod was condemning her in his heart perhaps he would not have
cared to tell; but he could but be generous, even to his step-mother.

"I suppose I must understand that you are in some sort of trouble?"

"Indeed I am."

"If it is anything in which I can help you, you have only to ask me to
do it," he said. But his manner was lofty as he spoke, his voice had a
hard ring in it.

"Thank you very much, Joseph," was the meek, grateful answer. "If you
will only take no further notice, and say nothing to your father when he
comes home, it will be helping me sufficiently."

Tod strolled out; just as angry as he could be; and I ran over to the
farm. Jane Coney had received a letter from her mother by the afternoon
post, saying she might not be home for some days to come.

"Tell Mrs. Todhetley that I am sorry to have to send her bad news over
and over again," said Jane Coney, who was sitting in the best kitchen,
with her muslin sleeves turned up, and a big apron on, stripping fruit
for jam. The Coneys had brought up their girls sensibly, not to be
ashamed to make themselves thoroughly useful, in spite of their
education, and the fair fortune they would have. Mary was married; Jane
engaged to be. I sat on the table by her, eating away at the fruit.

"What is it Mrs. Todhetley wants with my mother, Johnny?"

"As if I knew!"

"I think it must be something urgent. When she came in, that morning,
only five minutes after mamma had driven off, she was so terribly
disappointed, saying she would give a great deal to have spoken to her
first. My sister is not quite so well again; that's why mamma is staying
longer."

"I'll tell her, Jane."

"By the way, Johnny, what's this they are saying--about some strange man
being seen here? A special constable, peeping after bad characters?"

"A special constable?"

Jane Coney laughed. "Or a police-officer in disguise. It is what one of
our maids told me."

"Oh," I answered, carelessly, for somehow I did not like the words; "you
must mean a man that is looking at the land; an engineer."

"Is that all?" cried Jane Coney. "How foolish people are!"

It was a sort of untruth, no doubt; but I should have told a worse in
the necessity. I did not like the aspect of things; and they puzzled my
brain unpleasantly all the way home.

Mrs. Todhetley was at work by the window when I got there. Tod had not
made his re-appearance; Hugh and Lena were in bed. She dropped her work
when I gave the message.

"Not for some days to come yet! Oh, Johnny!"

"But what do you want with her?"

"Well, I do want her. I want a friend just now, Johnny, that's the
truth; and I think Mrs. Coney would be one."

"Joe asked if he could help you; and you said 'No.' Can I?"

"Johnny, if you could, there's no one in the world I'd rather ask. But
you cannot."

"Why?"

"Because"--she smiled for a moment--"you are not old enough. If you
were--of age, say--why then I would."

I had hold of the window-frame, looking at her, and an idea struck me.
"Do you mean that I should be able then to command money?"

"Yes, that's it, Johnny."

"But, perhaps--if I were to write to Mr. Brandon----"

"Hush!" she exclaimed in a sort of fright. "You must not talk of this,
Johnny; you don't know the sad mischief you might do. Oh, if I can only
keep it from you all! Here comes Joseph," she added in a whisper; and
gathering up her work, went out of the room.

"Did I not make a sign to you to come after me?" began Tod, in one of
his tempers.

"But I had to go over to the Coneys'. I've only just got back again."

He looked into the room and saw that it was empty. "Where's madam gone?
To the Ravine after her friend?"

"She was here sewing not a minute ago."

"Johnny, she told a lie. Did you notice the sound of her voice when she
said the fellow was no relative of hers?"

"Not particularly."

"I did, then. At the moment the denial took me by surprise; but I
remembered the tone later. It had an untrue ring in it. Madam told a
lie, Johnny, as sure as that we are here. I'd lay my life he _is_ a
relative of hers, or a connection in some way. I don't think now it
is money he wants; if it were only that, she'd get it, and send him
packing. It's worse than that: disgrace, perhaps."

"What sort of disgrace can it be?"

"I don't know. But if something of the sort is not looming, never trust
me again. And here am I, with my hands tied, forbidden to unravel it.
Johnny, I feel just like a wild beast barred up in a cage."

Had he been a real wild beast he could not have given the window-frame a
much worse shake, as he passed through in his anger to the bench under
the mulberry-tree.

When you have to look far back to things, recollection sometimes gets
puzzled as to the order in which they happened. How it came about I am
by no means clear, but an uncomfortable feeling grew up in my mind about
Hugh. About both the children, in fact, but Hugh more than Lena. Mrs.
Todhetley seemed to dread Hugh's being abroad--and I'm sure I was not
mistaken in thinking it. I heard her order Hannah to keep the children
within view of the house, and not to allow Hugh to stray away from her.
Had it been winter weather I suppose she'd have kept them indoors
altogether; there could be no plea for it under the blue sky and the hot
summer sun.

The Squire came home; he had been staying some time with friends in
Gloucestershire; but Mrs. Coney did not come--although Mrs. Todhetley
kept sending me for news. Twice I saw her talking to the strange man;
who I believed made his abode in the Ravine. Tod watched, as he had
threatened to do; and would often appear with in-drawn lips. There was
active warfare between him and his step-mother: at least if you can say
that when both kept silence. As to the Squire, he observed nothing, and
knew nothing: and no one enlightened him. It seems a long time, I dare
say, when reading of this, as if it had extended over a month of
Sundays; but I don't think it lasted much more than a fortnight in all.

One evening, quite late, when the sun was setting, and the Squire was
smoking his pipe on the lawn, talking to me and Tod, Lena and her mother
came in at the gate. In spite of the red rays lighting up Mrs.
Todhetley's face, it struck me that I had never seen it look more
careworn. Lena put her arms on Tod's knee, and began telling about a
fright she had had: of a big toad that leaped out of the grass, and made
her scream and cry. She cried "because nobody was with her."

"Where was mamma?" asked Tod; but I am sure he spoke without any
ulterior thought.

"Mamma had gone to the zigzag stile to talk to the man. She told me to
wait for her."

"What man?" cried the Squire.

"Why, the man," said Lena logically. "He asks Hugh to go with him over
the sea to see the birds and the red coral."

If any one face ever turned whiter than another, Mrs. Todhetley's did
then. Tod looked at her, sternly, ungenerously; and her eyes fell. She
laid hold of Lena's hand, saying it was bed-time.

"What man is the child talking about?" the Squire asked her.

"She talks about so many people," rather faintly answered Mrs.
Todhetley. "Come, Lena dear; Hannah's waiting for you. Say good-night."

The Squire, quite unsuspicious, thought no more. He got up and walked
over to the beds to look at the flowers, holding his long churchwarden
pipe in his mouth. Tod put his back against the tree.

"It is getting complicated, Johnny."

"What is?"

"What is! Why, madam's drama. She is afraid of that hinted scheme of her
friend's--the carrying-off Master Hugh beyond the seas."

He spoke in satire. "Do you think so?" I returned.

"Upon my honour I do. She must be an idiot! I should like to give her a
good fright."

"Tod, I think she is frightened enough without our giving her one."

"I think she is. She must have caught up the idea from overhearing
Hannah's gossip with old Thomas. This afternoon Hugh was running through
the little gate with me; madam came flying over the lawn and begged me
not let him out of my hand, or else to leave him indoors. But for being
my father's wife, I should have asked her if her common-sense had gone
wool-gathering."

"I suppose it has, Tod. Fancy a kidnapper in these days! The curious
thing is, that she should fear anything of the sort."

"If she really does fear it. I tell you, Johnny, the performance is
growing complicated; somewhat puzzling. But I'll see it played out if I
live."

The week went on to Friday. But the afternoon was over, and evening set
in, before the shock fell upon us: _Hugh was missing_.

The Squire had been out in the gig, taking me; and it seems they had
supposed at home that Hugh was with us. The particulars of Hugh's
disappearance, and what had happened in the day, I will relate further
on.

The Squire thought nothing: he said Hugh must have got into Coney's
house or some other neighbour's house: and sat down to dinner, wondering
why so much to-do was made. Mrs. Todhetley looked scared to death; and
Tod tore about as if he were wild. The servants were sent here, the
outdoor men there: it was like a second edition of that day in
Warwickshire when we lost Lena: like it, only worse, more commotion.
Hannah boldly said to her mistress that the strange man must have
carried off the boy.

Hour after hour the search continued. With no result. Night came on,
with a bright moon to light it up. But it did not light up Hugh.

Mrs. Todhetley, a dark shawl over her head, and I dare say a darker fear
upon her heart, went out for the second or third time towards the
Ravine. I ran after her. We had nearly reached the stile at the zigzag,
when Tod came bounding over it.

"Has not the time for shielding this man gone by, think you?" he asked,
placing himself in Mrs. Todhetley's path, and speaking as coolly as he
was able for the agitation that shook him. And why Tod, with his known
carelessness, should be so moved, I could not fathom.

"Joseph, I do not suppose or think the man knows anything of Hugh; I
have my reasons for it," she answered, bearing on for the stile, and
leaning over it to look down into the dark Ravine.

"Will you give me permission to inquire that of himself?"

"You will not find the man. He is gone."

"Leave the finding him to me," persisted Tod. "Will you withdraw the
embargo you laid upon me?"

"No, no," she whispered, "I cannot do it."

The trees had an uncommonly damp feel in the night-air, and the
place altogether looked as weird as could be. I was away then in the
underwood; she looked down always into the Ravine and called Hugh's name
aloud. Nothing but an echo answered.

"It has appeared to me for several days that you have feared something
of this," Tod said, trying to get a full view of her face. "It might
have been better for--for all of us--if you had allowed me at first to
take the affair in hand."

"Perhaps I ought; perhaps I ought," she said, bursting into tears.
"Heaven knows, though, that I acted from a good motive. It was not to
screen myself that I've tried to keep the matter secret."

"Oh!" The sarcasm of Tod's short comment was like nothing I ever heard.
"To screen me, perhaps?" said he.

"Well, yes--in a measure, Joseph," she patiently answered. "I only
wished to spare you vexation. Oh, Joseph! if--if Hugh cannot be found,
and--and all has to come out--who he is and what he wants here--remember
that I wished nothing but to spare others pain."

Tod's eyes were blazing with angry, haughty light. Spare _him_! He
thought she was miserably equivocating; he had some such idea as that
she sought (in words) to make him a scape-goat for her relative's sins.
What he answered I hardly know; except that he civilly dared her to
speak.

"Do not spare _me_: I particularly request you will not," he scornfully
retorted. "Yourself as much as you will, but not me."

"I have done it for the best," she pleaded. "Joseph, I have done it all
for the best."

"Where is this man to be found? I have been looking for him these
several hours past, as I should think no man was ever looked for yet."

"I have said that I think he is not to be found. I think he is gone."

"Gone!" shouted Tod. "Gone!"

"I think he must be. I--I saw him just before dinner-time, here at this
very stile; I gave him something that I had to give, and I think he left
at once, to make the best of his way from the place."

"And Hugh?" asked Tod savagely.

"I did not know then that Hugh was missing. Oh, Joseph, I can't tell
what to think. When I said to him one day that he ought not to talk
nonsense to the children about corals and animals--in fact, should not
speak to them at all--he answered that if I did not get him the money he
wanted he'd take the boy off with him. I knew it was a jest; but I could
not help thinking of it when the days went on and on, and I had no money
to give him."

"_Of course_ he has taken the boy," said Tod, stamping his foot. And the
words sent Mrs. Todhetley into a tremor.

"Joseph! Do you think so?"

"Heaven help you, Mrs. Todhetley, for a--a simple woman! We may never
see Hugh again."

He caught up the word he had been going to say--fool. Mrs. Todhetley
clasped her hands together piteously, and the shawl slipped from her
shoulders.

"I think, madam, you must tell what you can," he resumed, scarcely
knowing which to bring uppermost, his anxiety for Hugh or his lofty,
scornful anger. "_Is_ the man a relative of yours?"

"No, not of mine. Oh, Joseph, please don't be angry with me! Not of
mine, but of yours."

"Of mine!" cried proud Tod. "Thank you, Mrs. Todhetley."

"His name is Arne," she whispered.

"What!" shouted Tod.

"Joseph, indeed it is. Alfred Arne."

Had Tod been shot by a cannon-ball, he could hardly have been more
completely struck into himself; doubled up, so to say. His mother had
been an Arne; and he well remembered to have heard of an ill-doing
mauvais sujet of a half-brother of hers, called Alfred, who brought
nothing but trouble and disgrace on all connected with him. There ensued
a silence, interrupted only by Mrs. Todhetley's tears. Tod was looking
white in the moonlight.

"So it seems it _is_ my affair!" he suddenly said; but though he drew up
his head, all his fierce spirit seemed to have gone out of him. "You can
have no objection to speak fully now."

And Mrs. Todhetley, partly because of her unresisting nature, partly in
her fear for Hugh, obeyed him.

"I had seen Mr. Arne once before," she began. "It was the year that I
first went home to Dyke Manor. He made his appearance there, not openly,
but just as he has made it here now. His object was to get money from
the Squire to go abroad with. And at length he did get it. But it put
your father very much out; made him ill, in fact; and I believe he took
a sort of vow, in his haste and vexation, to give Alfred Arne into
custody if he ever came within reach of him again. I think--I fear--he
always has something or other hanging over his head worse than debt; and
for that reason can never show himself by daylight without danger."

"Go on," said Tod, quite calmly.

"One morning recently I suddenly met him. He stepped right into my
path, here at this same spot, as I was about to descend the Ravine, and
asked if I knew him again. I was afraid I did. I was afraid he had come
on the same errand as before: and oh, Joseph, how thankful I felt that
you and your father were away! He told me a long and pitiful tale, and I
thought I ought to try and help him to the money he needed. He was
impatient for it, and the same evening, supposing no one was at home but
myself, he came to the dining-room window, wishing to ask if I had
already procured the money. Johnny heard him knock."

"It might have been better that we had been here," repeated Tod. "Better
that we should have dealt with him than you."

"Your father was so thankful that you were at school before, Joseph; so
thankful! He said he would not have you know anything about Alfred Arne
for the world. And so--I tried to keep it this time from both you and
him, and, but for this fear about Hugh, I should have done it."

Tod did not answer. He looked at her keenly in the twilight of the
summer's night, apparently waiting for more. She continued her
explanation; not enlarging upon things, suffering, rather, inferences
to be drawn. The following was its substance:--

Alfred Arne asked for fifty pounds. He had returned to England only a
few months before, had got into some fresh danger, and had to leave it
again, and to hide himself until he did so. The fifty pounds--to get him
off, he said, and start him afresh in the colonies--he demanded not as a
gift, but a matter of right: the Todhetleys, being his near relatives,
must help him. Mrs. Todhetley knew but of one person she could borrow
it from privately--Mrs. Coney--and _she_ had gone from home just as she
was about to be asked for it. Only this afternoon had Mrs. Todhetley
received the money from her and paid it to Alfred Arne.

"I would not have told you this, but for being obliged, Joseph," she
pleaded meekly, when the brief explanation was ended. "We can still keep
it from your father; better, perhaps, that you should know it than he:
you are young and he is not."

"A great deal better," assented Tod. "You have made yourself responsible
to Mrs. Coney for the fifty pounds?"

"Don't think of that, Joseph. She is in no hurry for repayment, and will
get it from me by degrees. I have a little trifle of my own, you know,
that I get half-yearly, and I can economize in my dress. I did so hope
to keep it from you as well as from your father."

I wondered if Tod saw all the patient, generous, self-sacrificing
spirit. I wondered if he was growing to think that he had been always on
the wrong tack in judging harshly of his stepmother. She turned away,
thinking perhaps that time was being lost. I said something about Hugh.

"Hugh is all right, Johnny; he'll be found now," Tod answered in a
dreamy tone, as he looked after her with a dreamy look. The next moment
he strode forward, and was up with Mrs. Todhetley.

"I beg your pardon for the past, mother; I beg it with shame and
contrition. Can you forgive me?"

"Oh, pray don't, dear Joseph! I have nothing to forgive," she answered,
bursting into fresh tears as she took his offered hand. And that was the
first time in all his life that Tod, prejudiced Tod, had allowed himself
to call her "mother."

II.

I never saw anything plainer in my life. It was not just opposite to
where I stood, but lower down towards the end of the Ravine. Amongst the
dark thick underwood of the rising bank it dodged about, just as if some
one who was walking carried it in his hand lifted up in front of him. A
round white light, exactly as the ghost's light was described to be. One
might have fancied it the light of a wax-candle, only that a candle
would flicker itself dim and bright by turns in the air, and this was
steady and did not.

If a ghost was carrying it, he must have been pacing backwards and
forwards; for the light confined itself to the range of a few yards.
Beginning at the environs of the black old yew-tree, it would come on
amidst the broom and shrubs to the group of alders, and then go back
again Timberdale way, sometimes lost to sight for a minute, as if hidden
behind a thicker mass of underwood, and then gleaming out afresh further
on in its path. Now up, now down; backwards and forwards; here, there,
everywhere; it was about as unaccountable a sight as any veritable ghost
ever displayed, or I, Johnny Ludlow, had chanced to come upon.

The early part of the night had been bright. It was the same night,
spoken of in the last chapter, when Hugh was being searched for. Up to
eleven o'clock the moon had shone radiantly. Since then a curious sort
of darkness had come creeping along the heavens, and now, close upon
twelve, it overshadowed the earth like a pall. A dark, black canopy,
which the slight wind, getting up, never stirred, though it sighed and
moaned with a weird unpleasant sound down the Ravine. I did not mind
the light myself; don't think I should much have minded the ghost: but
Luke Mackintosh, standing by me, did. Considering that he was a good
five-and-twenty years of age, and had led an out-of-door life, it may
sound queer to say it, but he seemed timid as a hare.

"I don't like it, Master Johnny," he whispered, as he grasped the fence
with an unsteady hand, and followed the light with his eyes. What with
the trees around us, and the pall overhead, it was dark enough, but I
could see his face, and knew it had turned white.

"I believe you are afraid, Luke!"

"Well, sir, so might you be if you knowed as much of that there light
as I do. It never comes but it bodes trouble."

"Who brings the light?"

"It's more than I can say, sir. They call it here the ghost's light.
And folks say, Master Johnny, that when it's seen, there's sure to be
some trouble in the air."

"I think we have trouble enough just now without the light, Luke; and
our trouble was with us before we saw that."

The Ravine lay beneath us, stretching out on either hand, weird,
lonesome, dreary, the bottom hidden in gloom. The towering banks,
whether we looked down the one we leaned over, or to the other opposite,
presented nothing to the eye but darkness: we knew the masses of trees,
bushes, underwood were there, but could not see them: and the spot
favoured by the restless light was too wild and steep to be safe for the
foot of man. Of course it was a curious speculation what it could be.

"Did you ever see the light before, Mackintosh?"

"Yes," he answered, "half-a-dozen times. Do you mind, Master Johnny, my
getting that there bad cut in the leg with my reaping-hook awhile agone?
Seven weeks I lay in Worcester Infirmary: they carried me there on a
mattress shoved down in the cart."

"I remember hearing of it. We were at Dyke Manor."

Before Luke went on, he turned his face to me and dropped his voice to
a deeper whisper.

"Master Ludlow, as true as us two be a-standing here, I saw the ghost's
light the very night afore I got the hurt. I was working for Mr. Coney
then, it was before I came into the Squire's service. Young Master
Tom, he came out of the kitchen with a letter when we was at our
seven-o'clock supper, and said I were to cut off to Timberdale with it
and to look sharp, or the letter-box 'ud be shut. So I had to do it,
sir, and I came through this here Ravine, a-whistling and a-holding my
head down, though I'd rather ha' went ten mile round. When I got out of
it on t'other side, on top of the zigzag, I chanced to look back over
the stile, and there I see the light. It were opposite then, on _this_
side, sir, and moving about in the same see-saw way it be now, for I
stood and watched it."

"I wonder you plucked up the courage to stand and watch it, Luke?"

"I were took aback, sir, all in a maze like: and then I started off full
pelt, as quick as my heels 'ud carry me. That was the very blessed night
afore I got the hurt. When the doctors was a-talking round me at the
infirmary, and I think they was arguing whether or not my leg must come
off, I telled 'em that I was afeared it wouldn't much matter neither
way, for I'd seen the ghost's light the past night and knowed my fate.
One of them, a young man he was, burst out laughing above my face as I
lay, and t'other next him, a grave gentleman with white hair, turned
round and hushed at him. Master Ludlow, it's all gospel true."

"But you got well, Luke."

"But I didn't think to," argued Luke. "And I see the light."

As he turned his face again, the old church clock at Timberdale struck
twelve. It seemed to come booming over the Ravine with quite a warning
sound, and Luke gave himself a shake. As for me, I could only wish one
thing--that Hugh was found.

Tod came up the zigzag path, a lantern in his hand; I whistled to let
him know I was near. He had been to look in the unused little shed-place
nearly at the other end of the Ravine; not for Hugh, but for the man,
Alfred Arne. Tod came up to us, and his face, as the lantern flashed
upon it, was whiter and graver than that of Luke Mackintosh.

"Did you see that, sir?" asked Luke.

"See what?" cried Tod, turning sharply. He thought it might be some
trace of Hugh.

"That there ghost light, sir. It's showing itself to-night."

Angry, perplexed, nearly out of his mind with remorse and fear, Tod gave
Luke a word of a sort, ordering him to be silent for an idiot, and put
the lantern down. He then saw the moving light, and let his eyes rest on
it in momentary curiosity.

"It's the ghost light, sir," repeated Luke, for the man seemed as if he
and all other interests were lost in that.

"The deuce take the ghost's light, and you with it," said Tod
passionately. "Is this a time to be staring at ghosts' lights? Get you
into Timberdale, Mackintosh, and see whether the police have news of the
child."

"Sir, I'd not go through the Ravine to-night," was Luke's answer. "No,
not though I knowed I was to be killed at to-morrow's dawn for
disobeying the order."

"Man, what are you afraid of?"

"Of that," said Luke, nodding at the light. "But I don't like the Ravine
in the night at no time."

"Why, that's nothing but a will-o'-the-wisp," returned Tod,
condescending to reason with him.

Luke shook his head. There was the light; and neither his faith in it
nor his fear could be shaken. Tod had his arms on the fence now, and was
staring at the light as fixedly as Luke had done.

"Johnny."

"What?"

"That light is carried by some one. It's being lifted about."

"How could any one carry it _there_?" I returned. "He'd pitch head over
heels down the Ravine. No fellow could get to the place, Tod, let alone
keep his footing. It's where the bushes are thickest."

Tod caught up the lantern. As its light flashed on his face, I could see
it working with new eagerness. He was taking up the notion that Hugh
might have fallen on that very spot, and that some one was waving a
light to attract attention. As to ghosts, Tod would have met an army of
them without the smallest fear.

He went back down the Ravine, and we heard him go crashing through the
underwood. Luke never spoke a word. Suddenly, long before Tod could get
to it, the light disappeared. We waited and watched, but it did not come
again.

"It have been like that always, Master Johnny," whispered Luke, taking
his arms off the fence. "Folks may look as long as they will at that
there light; but as soon as they go off, a-trying to get to see what it
is, it takes itself away. It will be seen no more to-night, sir."

He turned off across the meadow for the high-road, to go and do Tod's
bidding at Timberdale, walking at a sharp pace. Any amount of exertion
would have been welcome to Mackintosh, as an alternative to passing
through the Ravine.

It may be remembered that for some days we had been vaguely uneasy about
Hugh, and the uneasiness had penetrated to Mrs. Todhetley. Tod had made
private mockery of it to me, thinking she must be three parts a fool to
entertain any such fear. "I should like to give madam a fright," he said
to me one day--meaning that he would like to hide little Hugh for a
time. But I never supposed he would really do it. And it was only
to-night--hours and hours after Hugh disappeared, that Tod avowed to me
the part he had taken in the loss. To make it clear to the reader, we
must go back to the morning of this same day--Friday.

After breakfast I was shut up with my books, paying no attention to
anything that might be going on, inside the house or out of it. Old
Frost gave us a woeful lot to do in the holidays. The voices of the
children, playing at the swing, came wafting in through the open window;
but they died away to quietness as the morning went on. About twelve
o'clock Mrs. Todhetley looked in.

"Are the children here, Johnny?"

She saw they were not, and went away without waiting for an answer. Lena
ran up the passage, and I heard her say papa had taken Hugh out in the
pony-gig. The interruption served as an excuse for putting up the books
for the day, and I went out.

Of all young ragamuffins, the worst came running after me as I went
through the fold-yard gate. Master Hugh! Whether he had been in the
green pond again or over the house-roof, he was in a wonderful state;
his blue eyes not to be seen for mud, his straw-hat bent, his brown
holland blouse all tatters and slime, and the pretty fair curls that
Hannah was proud of and wasted her time over, a regular mass of tangle.

"Take me with you, Johnny!"

"I should think I would, like that! What have you been doing with
yourself?"

"Playing with the puppy. We fell down in the mud amongst the ducks.
Joe says I am to stop in the barn and hide myself. I am afraid to go
indoors."

"You'll catch it, and no mistake. Come, be off back again."

But he'd not go back, and kept running by my side under the high hedge.
When we came to the gate at the end of the field, I stood and ordered
him to go. He began to cry a little.

"Now, Hugh, you know you cannot go with me in that plight. Walk yourself
straight off to Hannah and get her to change the things before your
mamma sees you. There; you may have the biscuit: I don't much care for
it."

It was a big captain's biscuit that I had caught up in going through the
dining-room. He took that readily enough, the young cormorant, but he
wouldn't stir any the more for it: and I might have had the small object
with me till now, but for the appearance of the Squire's gig in the
lane. The moment Hugh caught sight of his papa, he turned tail and
scampered away like a young wild animal. Remembering Mrs. Todhetley's
foolish fear, I mounted the gate and watched him turn safely in at the
other.

"What are you looking at, Johnny?" asked the Squire, as he drove
leisurely up.

"At Hugh, sir. I've sent him indoors."

"I'm going over to Massock's, Johnny, about the bricks for that cottage.
You can get up, if you like to come with me."

I got into the gig at once, and we drove to South Crabb, to Massock's
place. He was not to be seen; his people thought he had gone out for the
day. Upon that, the Squire went on to see old Cartwright, and they made
us stop there and put up the pony. When we reached home it was past
dinner-time. Mrs. Todhetley came running out.

"Couldn't get here before: the Cartwrights kept us," called out the
Squire. "We are going to catch it, Johnny," he whispered to me, with a
laugh: "we've let the dinner spoil."

But it was not the dinner. "Where's Hugh?" asked Mrs. Todhetley.

"I've not seen Hugh," said the Squire, flinging the reins to Luke
Mackintosh, who had come up. Luke did all kinds of odd jobs about the
place, and sometimes helped the groom.

"But you took Hugh out with you," she said.

"Not I," answered the Squire.

Mrs. Todhetley's face turned white. She looked from one to the other of
us in a helpless kind of manner. "Lena said you did," she returned, and
her voice seemed to fear its own sound. The Squire talking with
Mackintosh about the pony, noticed nothing particular.

"Lena did? Oh, ay, I remember. I let Hugh get up at the door and drove
him round to the fold-yard gate. I dropped him there."

He went in as he spoke: Mrs. Todhetley seemed undecided whether to
follow him. Tod had his back against the door-post, listening.

"What are you alarmed at?" he asked her, not even attempting to suppress
his mocking tone.

"Oh, Johnny!" she said, "have _you_ not seen him?"

"Yes; and a fine pickle he was in," I answered, telling her about it.
"I dare say Hannah has put him to bed for punishment."

"But Hannah has not," said Mrs. Todhetley. "She came down at four
o'clock to inquire if he had come in."

However, thinking that it might possibly turn out to be so, she ran in
to ascertain. Tod put his hand on my shoulder, and walked me further
off.

"Johnny, did Hugh really not go with you?"

"Why, of course he did not. Should I deny it if he did?"

"Where the dickens can the young idiot have got to?" mused Tod.
"Jeffries vowed he saw him go off with you down the field, Johnny."

"But I sent him back. I watched him in at the fold-yard gate. You don't
suppose I could take him further in that pickle!"

Tod laughed a little at the remembrance. Mrs. Todhetley returned, saying
Hugh was not to be found anywhere. She looked ready to die. Tod was
inwardly enjoying her fright beyond everything: it was better than a
play to him. His particularly easy aspect struck her.

"Oh, Joseph!" she implored, "if you know where he is, pray tell me."

"How should I know?" returned Tod. "I protest on my honour I have not
set eyes on him since before luncheon to-day."

"_Do_ you know where he is, Tod?" I asked him, as she turned indoors.

"No; but I can guess. He's not far off. And I really did think he was
with you, Johnny. I suppose I must go and bring him in, now; but I'd
give every individual thing my pockets contain if madam had had a few
hours' fright of it, instead of a few minutes'."

The dinner-bell was ringing, but Tod went off in an opposite direction.
And I must explain here what he knew of it, though he did not tell me
then. Walking through the fold-yard that morning, he had come upon
Master Hugh, just emerging from the bed of green mud, crying his eyes
out, and a piteous object. Hannah had promised Hugh that the next time
he got into this state she would carry him to the Squire. Hugh knew
she'd be sure to keep her word, and that the upshot would probably be
a whipping. Tod, after gratifying his eyes with the choice spectacle,
and listening to the fears of the whipping, calmly assured the young
gentleman that he was "in for it," at which Hugh only howled the more.
All in a moment it occurred to Tod to make use of this opportunity to
frighten Mrs. Todhetley. He took Hugh off to the barn, and told him
that if he'd hide himself there until the evening, he'd not only get him
off his whipping, but give him all sorts of good things besides. Hugh
was willing to promise, but said he wanted his dinner, upon which Tod
went and brought him a plate of bread-and-butter, telling Molly, who
cut it, that it was for himself. Tod left him devouring it in the dark
corner behind the waggon, particularly impressing upon him the fact
that he was to keep close and make no sign if his mamma, or Hannah, or
anybody else, came to look for him. One of the men, Jeffries, was at
work in the barn, and Tod, so to say, took him into confidence, ordering
him to know nothing if Master Hugh were inquired for. As Hannah and
Jeffries were at daggers drawn, and the man supposed this hiding was to
spite her, he entered into it with interest.

There were two barns at Crabb Cot. One some way down the road in front
of the house was the store barn, and you've heard of it before in
connection with something seen by Maria Lease. It was called the yellow
barn from the colour of its outer walls. The other, of red brick, was
right at the back of the fold-yard, and it was in this last that Tod
left Hugh, all safe and secure, as he thought, until told he might come
out again.

But now, when Tod went into the dining-room to luncheon at half-past
twelve--we country people breakfast early--at which meal he expected the
hue and cry after Hugh to set in, for it was the children's dinner,
he found there was a hitch in the programme. Mrs. Todhetley appeared
perfectly easy on the score of Hugh's absence, and presently casually
mentioned that he had gone out with his papa in the pony-gig. Tod's
lips parted to say that Hugh was not in the pony-gig, but in a state
of pickle instead. Prudence caused him to close them again. Hannah,
standing behind Lena's chair, openly gave thanks that the child was got
rid of for a bit, and said he was "getting a'most beyond her." Tod bit
his lips with vexation: the gilt was taken off the gingerbread. He went
to the barn again presently, and then found that Hugh had left it.
Jeffries said he saw him going towards the lane with Master Ludlow, and
supposed that the little lad had taken the opportunity to slip out of
the barn when he (Jeffries) went to dinner, at twelve o'clock. And thus
the whole afternoon had gone peaceably and unsuspiciously on; Mrs.
Todhetley and Hannah supposing Hugh was with the Squire, Tod supposing
he must be somewhere with me.

And when we both appeared at home without him, Tod took it for granted
that Hugh had gone back to his hiding-place in the barn, and a qualm of
conscience shot through him for leaving the lad there so many hours
unlooked after. He rushed off to it at once, while the dinner-bell was
ringing. But when he got there, Jeffries declared Hugh had not been back
to it at all. Tod, in his hot way, retorted on Jeffries for saying so;
but the man persisted that he could not be mistaken, as he had never
been away from the barn since coming back from dinner.

And then arose the commotion. Tod came back with a stern face, almost as
anxious as Mrs. Todhetley's. Hugh had not been seen, so far as could be
ascertained, since I watched him in at the fold-yard gate soon after
twelve. That was nearly seven hours ago. Tod felt himself responsible
for the loss, and sent the men to look about. But the worst he thought
then was, that the boy, whose fears of showing himself in his state of
dilapidation Tod himself had mischievously augmented, had lain down
somewhere or other and dropped asleep.

It had gone on, and on, and on, until late at night, and then had
occurred that explanation between Tod and his step-mother told of in the
other paper. Tod was all impulse, and pride, and heat, and passion; but
his heart was made of sterling gold, just like the Squire's. Holding
himself aloof from her in haughty condemnation, in the matter of the
mysterious stranger, to find now that the stranger was a man called
Alfred Arne, _his_ relative, and that Mrs. Todhetley had been generously
taking the trouble upon herself for the sake of sparing him and his
father pain, completely turned Tod and his pride over.

He had grown desperately frightened as the hours went on. The moon-lit
night had become dark, as I've already said, and the men could not
pursue their search to much effect. Tod did not cease his. He got a
lantern, and went rushing about as if he were crazy. You saw him come up
with it from the Ravine, and now he had gone back on a wild-goose chase
after the ghost light. Where was Hugh? Where could he be? It was not
likely Alfred Arne had taken him, because he had that afternoon got from
Mrs. Todhetley the fifty pounds he worried for, and she thought he had
gone finally off with it. It stood to reason that the child would be
an encumbrance to him. On the other hand, Tod's theory, that Hugh had
dropped asleep somewhere, seemed, as the hours crept on, less and less
likely to hold water, for he would have wakened up and come home long
ago. As to the Ravine, in spite of Tod's suspicions that he might be
there, I was sure the little fellow would not have ventured into it.

I stood on, in the dark night, waiting for Tod to come back again. It
felt awfully desolate now Luke Mackintosh had gone. The ghost light
did not show again. I rather wished it would, for company. He came at
last--Tod, not the ghost. I had heard him shouting, and nothing answered
but the echoes. A piece of his coat was torn, and some brambles were
sticking to him, and the lantern was broken; what dangerous places he
had pushed himself into could never be told.

"I wonder you've come out with whole limbs, Tod."

"Hold your peace, Johnny," was all the retort I got; and his voice rose
nearly to a shout in its desperate sorrow.

                 *       *       *       *       *

Morning came, but no news with it, no Hugh. Tod had been about all
night. With daylight, the fields, and all other seemingly possible
places, were searched. Tom Coney went knocking at every house in North
and South Crabb, and burst into cottages, and turned over, so to say,
all the dwellings in that savoury locality, Crabb Lane, but with no
result. The Squire was getting anxious; but none of us had ventured to
tell him of our especial cause for anxiety, or to speak of Alfred Arne.

It appeared nearly certain now, to us, that he had gone with Alfred
Arne, and, after a private consultation with Mrs. Todhetley, Tod and I
set out in search of the man. She still wished to spare the knowledge of
his visit to the Squire, if possible.

We had not far to go. Mrs. Todhetley's fears went ranging abroad to
London, or Liverpool, or the Coral Islands beyond the sea, of which Arne
had talked to Hugh: but Arne was found at Timberdale. In an obscure
lodging in the further outskirts of the place, the landlord of which, a
man named Cookum, was a bad character, and very shy of the police, Arne
was found. We might have searched for him to the month's end, but for
Luke Mackintosh. When Luke arrived at Timberdale in the middle of the
night, ordered there by Tod to make inquiries at the police-station, he
saw a tipsy man slink into Cookum's house, and recognized him for the
one who had recently been exciting speculation at home. Luke happened to
mention this to Tod, not connecting Hugh with it at all, simply as a bit
of gossip: of course it was not known who Arne was, or his name, or what
he had been waiting for.

We had a fight to get in. Cookum came leaping down the crazy stairs, and
put himself in our way in the passage, swearing we should not go on. Tod
lifted his strong arm.

"I mean to go on, Cookum," he said, in a slow, quiet voice that had
determination in every tone of it. "I have come to see a man named Arne.
I don't want to do him any ill, or you either; but, see him, I will. If
you do not move out of my way I'll knock you down."

Cookum stood his ground. He was short, slight, and sickly, with a puffy
face and red hair; a very reed beside Tod.

"There ain't no man here of that name. There ain't no man here at all."

"Very well. Then you can't object to letting me see that there is not."

"I swear that you shan't see, master. There!"

Tod flung him aside. Cookum, something like an eel, slipped under Tod's
arm, and was in front of him again.

"I don't care to damage you, Cookum, as you must see I could do, and
force my way in over your disabled body; you look too weak for it. But
I'll either go in _so_, or the police shall clear an entrance for me."

The mention of the police scared the man; I saw it in his face. Tod kept
pushing on and the man backing, just a little.

"I won't have no police here. What is it you want?"

"I have told you once. A man named Arne."

"I swear then that I never knowed a man o' that name; let alone having
him in my place."

And he spoke with such passionate fervour that it struck me Arne did not
go by his own name: which was more than probable. They were past the
stairs now, and Cookum did not seem to care to guard them. The nasty
passage, long and narrow, had a door at the end. Tod thought that must
be the fortress.

"You are a great fool, Cookum. I've told you that I mean no harm to you
or to any one in the place; so to make this fuss is needless. You may
have a band of felons concealed here, or a cart-load of stolen goods;
they are all safe for me. But if you force me to bring in the police it
might be a different matter."

Perhaps the argument told on the man; perhaps the tone of reason it was
spoken in; but he certainly seemed to hesitate.

"You can't prove that to me, sir: not that there's any felons or things
in here. Show me that you don't mean harm, and you shall go on."

"Have you a stolen child here?"

Cookum's mouth opened with genuine surprise. "A stolen child!"

"We have lost a little boy. I have reason to think that a man who was
seen to enter this passage in the middle of the night knows something of
him, and I have come to ask and see. Now you know all. Let me go on."

The relief on the man's face was great. "Honour bright, sir."

"Don't stand quibbling, man," roared Tod passionately. "YES!"

"I've got but one man in all the place. He have no boy with him, he
haven't."

"But he may know something of one. What's his name?"

"All the name he've given me is Jack."

"I dare say it's the same. Come! you are wasting time."

But Cookum, doubtful still, never moved. They were close to the door
now, and he had his back against it. Tod turned his head.

"Go for the two policemen, Johnny. They are both in readiness, Cookum.
I looked in at the station as I came by, to say I might want them."

Before I could get out, Cookum howled out to me _not_ to go, as one in
mortal fear. He took a latch-key from his pocket, and put it into the
latch of the door, which had no other fastening outside, not even a
handle. "You can open it yourself," said he to Tod, and slipped away.

It might have been a sort of kitchen but that it looked more like a
den, with nothing to light it but a dirty sky-light above. The floor
was of red brick; a tea-kettle boiled on the fire; there was a smell
of coffee. Alfred Arne stood on the defensive against the opposite
wall, a life-preserver in his hand, and his thin hair on end with
fright.

"I am here on a peaceable errand, if you will allow it to be so," said
Tod, shutting us in. "Is your name Arne?"

Arne dropped the life-preserver into the breast-pocket of his coat, and
came forward with something of a gentleman's courtesy.

"Yes, my name is Arne, Joseph Todhetley. And your mother--as I make no
doubt you know--was a very near relative of mine. If you damage me, you
will bring her name unpleasantly before the public, as well as your own
and your father's."

That he thought our errand was to demand back the fifty pounds, there
could be no doubt: perhaps to hand him into custody if he refused to
give it up.

"I have not come to damage you in any way," said Tod in answer. "Where's
Hugh?"

Arne looked as surprised as the other man had. "Hugh!"

"Yes, Hugh: my little brother. Where is he?"

"How can I tell?"

Tod glanced round the place; there was not any nook or corner capable
of affording concealment. Arne gazed at him. He stood on that side the
dirty deal table, we on this.

"We have lost Hugh since mid-day yesterday. Do you know anything of
him?"

"Certainly _not_," was the emphatic answer, and I at least saw that it
was a true one. "Is it to ask that, that you have come here?"

"For that, and nothing else. We have been up all night searching for
him."

"But why do you come after him here? I am not likely to know where he
is."

"I think you are likely."

"Why?"

"You have been talking to the boy about carrying him off with you to see
coral islands. You hinted, I believe, to Mrs. Todhetley that you might
really take him, if your demands were not complied with."

Arne slightly laughed. "I talked to the boy about the Coral Islands
because it pleased him. As to Mrs. Todhetley, if she has the sense of a
goose, she must have known I meant nothing. Take off a child with me!
Why, if he were made a present to me, I should only drop him at his own
door at Crabb Cot, as they drop the foundlings at the gate of the Maison
Dieu in Paris. Joseph Todhetley, I _could not_ be encumbered with a
child: the life of shifts and concealment I have to lead would debar
it."

I think Tod saw he was in earnest. But he stood in indecision: this
dashed out his great hope.

"I should have been away from here last night, but that I got a drop too
much and must wait till dark again," resumed Arne. "The last time I saw
Hugh was on Thursday afternoon. He was in the meadow with _you_."

"I did not see you," remarked Tod.

"I saw you, though. And that is the last time I saw him. Don't you
believe me? You may. I like the little lad, and would find him for you
if I could, rather than help to lose him. I'd say take my honour upon
this, Joseph Todhetley, only you might retort that it has not been worth
anything this many a year."

"And with justice," said Tod, boldly.

"True. The world has been against me and I against the world. But it has
not come yet with me to stealing children. With the loan of the money
now safe in my pocket, I shall make a fresh start in life. A precious
long time your step-mother kept me waiting for it."

"She did her best. You ought not to have applied to her at all."

"I know that: it should have been to the other side of the house. She
prevented me: wanting, she said, to spare you and your father."

"The knowledge of the disgrace. Yes."

"There's no need to have recourse to hard names, Joseph Todhetley. What
I am, I am, but you have not much cause to grumble, for I don't trouble
you often. As many thousand miles away as the seas can put between me
and England, I'm going now: and it's nearly as many chances to one
against your ever seeing me again."

Tod turned to depart: the intensely haughty look his face wore at odd
moments had been upon it throughout the interview. Had he been a woman
he might have stood with his skirts picked up, as if to save them
contamination from some kind of reptile. He stayed for a final word.

"Then I may take your answer in good faith--that you know nothing of
Hugh?"

"Take it, or not, as you please. If I knew that I was going to stand
next minute in the presence of Heaven, I could not give it more
truthfully. For the child's own sake, I hope he will be found. Why
don't you ask the man who owns the rooms?--he can tell you I have had
no boy here. If you choose to watch me away to-night, do so; you'll
see I go alone. A child with me! I might about as well give myself up
to the law at once, for I shouldn't long remain out of its clutches,
Joseph Todhetley."

"Good-morning," said Tod shortly. I echoed the words, and we were
civilly answered. As we went out, Arne shut the door behind us. In the
middle of the passage stood Cookum.

"Have you found he was who you wanted, sir?"

"Yes," answered Tod, not vouchsafing to explain. "Another time when I
say I do not wish to harm you, perhaps you'll take my word."

Mrs. Todhetley, pale and anxious, was standing under the mulberry-tree
when we got back. She came across the grass.

"Any news?" cried Tod. As if the sight of her was not enough, that he
need have asked!

"No, no, Joseph. Did you see him?"

"Yes, he had not left. He knows nothing of Hugh."

"I had no hope that he did," moaned poor Mrs. Todhetley. "All he wanted
was the money."

We turned into the dining-room by the glass-doors, and it seemed to
strike out a gloomy chill. On the wall near the window, there was a
chalk drawing of Hugh in colours, hung up by a bit of common string. It
was only a rough sketch that Jane Coney had done half in sport; but it
was like him, especially in the blue eyes and the pretty light hair.

"Where's my father?" asked Tod.

"Gone riding over to the brick-fields again," she answered: "he cannot
get it out of his mind that Hugh must be there. Joseph, as Mr. Arne
has nothing to do with the loss, we can still spare your father the
knowledge that he has been here. Spare it, I mean, for good."

"Yes. Thank you."

Hugh was uncommonly fond of old Massock's brick-fields; he would go
there on any occasion that offered, had once or twice strayed there a
truant; sending Hannah, for the time being, into a state of mortal
fright. The Squire's opinion was that Hugh must have decamped there some
time in the course of the Friday afternoon, perhaps followed the gig;
and was staying there, afraid to come home.

"He might have hung on to the tail of the gig itself, and I and Johnny
never have seen him, the 'cute Turk," argued the Squire.

Which I knew was just as likely as that he had, unseen, hung on to the
moon. In the state he had brought his clothes to, he wouldn't have gone
to the brick-fields at all. The Squire did not seem so uneasy as he
might have been. Hugh would be sure to turn up, he said, and should get
the soundest whipping any young rascal ever had.

But he came riding back from the brick-fields as before--without him.
Tod, awfully impatient, met him in the road by the yellow barn. The
Squire got off his horse there, for Luke Mackintosh was at hand to take
it.

"Father, I cannot think of any other place he can have got to: we have
searched everywhere. Can you?"

"Not I, Joe. Don't be down-hearted. He'll turn up; he'll turn up.
Halloa!" broke off the Squire as an idea struck him, "has this barn been
searched?"

"He can't be in there, sir; it's just a moral impossibility that he
could be," spoke up Mackintosh. "The place was empty, which I can be
upon my oath, when I locked it up yesterday afternoon, after getting
some corn out; and the key have never been out o' my trousers' pocket
since. Mr. Joseph, he was inside with me at the time, and knows it."

Tod nodded assent, and the Squire walked away. As there was no other
accessible entrance to the front barn, and the windows were ever so
many yards from the ground, they felt that it must be, as the man said,
a "moral impossibility."

The day went on, it was Saturday, remember, and the miserable hours went
on, and there came no trace of the child. The Ravine was again searched
thoroughly: that is, as thoroughly as its overgrown state permitted. It
was like waste of time; for Hugh would not have hidden himself in it;
and if he had fallen over the fence he would have been found before from
the traces that must have been left in the bushes. The searchers would
come in, one after another, now a farm-servant, now one of the police,
bringing no news, except of defeat, but hoping some one else had brought
it. Every time that Tod looked at the poor mild face of Mrs. Todhetley,
always meek and patient, striving ever to hide the anguish that each
fresh disappointment brought, I know he felt ready to hang himself. It
was getting dusk when Maria Lease came up with a piece of straw hat that
she had found in the withy walk. But both Mrs. Todhetley and Hannah,
upon looking at it, decided that the straw was of finer grain than
Hugh's.

That afternoon they dragged the pond, but there was nothing found in it.
We could get no traces anywhere. No one had seen him, no one heard of
him. From the moment when I had watched him into the fold-yard gate, it
seemed that he had altogether vanished from above ground. Since then all
scent of him was missing. It was very strange: just as though the boy
had been spirited away.

Sunday morning rose. As lovely a Sunday as ever this world saw, but all
sad for us. Tod had flung himself back in the pater's easy-chair, pretty
near done over. Two nights, and he had not been to bed. In spite of his
faith in Alfred Arne's denial, he had chosen to watch him away in the
night from Timberdale; and he saw the man steal off in the darkness on
foot and alone. The incessant hunting about was bringing its reaction on
Tod, and the fatigue of body and mind began to show itself. But as to
giving in, he'd never do that, and would be as likely as not to walk and
worry himself into a fever.

The day was warm and beautiful; the glass-doors stood open to the sweet
summer air. Light fleecy clouds floated over the blue sky, the sun shone
on the green grass of the lawn and sparkled amidst the leaves of the
great mulberry-tree. Butterflies flitted past in pairs, chasing each
other; bees sent forth their hum as they sipped the honey-dew from the
flowers; the birds sang their love-songs on the boughs: all seemed
happiness outside, as if to mock our care within.

Tod lay back with his eyes closed: I sat on the arm of the old red sofa.
The bells of North Crabb Church rang out for morning service. It was
rather a cracked old peal, but on great occasions the ringers assembled
and did their best. The Bishop of Worcester was coming over to-day to
preach a charity sermon: and North Crabb never had anything greater than
that. Tod opened his eyes and listened in silence.

"Tod, do you know what it puts me in mind of?"

"Don't bother. It's because of the bishop, I suppose."

"I don't mean the bells. It's like the old fable, told of in 'The
Mistletoe Bough,' enacted in real life. If there were any deep chest
about the premises----"

"Hold your peace, Johnny!--unless you want to drive me mad. If we come
upon the child like _that_, I'll--I'll----"

I think he was going to say shoot himself, or something of that sort,
for he was given to random speech when put to it. But at that moment
Lena ran in dressed for church, in her white frock and straw hat with
blue ribbons. She threw her hands on Tod's knee and burst out crying.

"Joe, I don't want to go to church; I want Hugh."

Quite a spasm of pain shot across his face, but he was very tender with
her. In all my life I had never seen Tod so gentle as he had been at
moments during the last two days.

"Don't cry, pretty one," he said, pushing the fair curls from her face.
"Go to church like a good little girl; perhaps we shall have found him
by the time you come home."

"Hannah says he's lying dead somewhere."

"Hannah's nothing but a wicked woman," savagely answered Tod. "Don't you
mind her."

But Lena would not be pacified, and kept on sobbing and crying, "I want
Hugh; I want Hugh."

Mrs. Todhetley, who had come in then, drew her away and sat down with
the child on her knee, talking to her in low, soothing tones.

"Lena, dear, you know I wish you to go with Hannah to church this
morning. And you will put papa's money into the plate. See: it is a
golden sovereign. Hannah must carry it, and you shall put it in."

"Oh, mamma! will Hugh never come home again? Will he die?"

"Hush, Lena," she said, as Tod bit his lip and gave his hair a dash
backwards. "Shall I tell you something that sounds like a pretty story?"

Lena was always ready for a story, pretty or ugly, and her blue eyes
were lifted to her mother's brightly through the tears. At that moment
she looked wonderfully like the portrait on the wall.

"Just now, dear, I was in my room upstairs, feeling very, very unhappy;
I'm not sure but I was sobbing nearly as much as you were just now. 'He
will never come back,' I said to myself; 'he is lost to us for ever.'
At that moment those sweet bells broke out, calling people to Heaven's
service, and I don't know why, Lena, but they seemed to whisper a great
comfort to me. They seemed to say that God was over us all, and saw our
trouble, and would heal it in His good time."

Lena stared a little, digesting what she could of the words. The tears
were nowhere.

"Will He send Hugh back?"

"I can't tell, darling. He can take care of Hugh, and bless him, and
keep him, wherever he may be, and I know He _will_. If He should have
taken him to heaven above the blue sky--oh then, Hugh must be very
happy. He will be with the angels. He will see Jesus face to face; and
you know how _He_ loved little children. The bells seemed to say all
this to me as I listened to them, Lena."

Lena went off contented: we saw her skipping along by Hannah's side,
who had on a new purple gown and staring red and green trimmings to her
bonnet. Children are as changeable as a chameleon, sobbing one minute,
laughing the next. Tod was standing now with his back to the window, and
Mrs. Todhetley sat by the table, her long thin fingers supporting her
cheek; very meek, very, very patient. Tod was thinking so as he glanced
at her.

"How you must hate me for this!" he said.

"Oh, Joseph! Hate you?"

"The thing is all my fault. A great deal has been my fault for a long
while; all the unpleasantness and the misunderstanding."

She got up and took his hand timidly, as if she feared he might think
it too great a liberty. "If you can only understand me for the future,
Joseph; understand how I wish and try to make things pleasant to you, I
shall be fully repaid: to you most especially in all the house, after
your father. I have ever striven and prayed for it."

He answered nothing for the moment; his face was working a little, and
he gave her fingers a grip that must have caused pain.

"If the worst comes of this, and Hugh never is amongst us again, I will
go over the seas in the wake of the villain Arne," he said in a low,
firm tone, "and spare you the sight of me."

Tears began to trickle down her face. "Joseph, my dear--if you will let
me call you so--this shall draw us near to each other, as we never might
have been drawn without it. You shall not hear a word of reproach from
us, or any word but love; there shall never be a thought of reproach in
my heart. I have had a great deal of sorrow in my life, Joseph, and have
learnt patiently to bear, leaving all things to Heaven."

"And if Hugh is dead?"

"What I said to Lena, I meant," she softly whispered. "If God has taken
him he is with the angels, far happier than he could be in this world of
care, though his lot were of the brightest."

The tears were running down her cheeks as she went out of the room. Tod
stood still as a stone.

"She is made of gold," I whispered.

"No, Johnny. Of something better."

The sound of the bells died away. None of us went to church; in the
present excitement it would have been a farce. The Squire had gone
riding about the roads, sending his groom the opposite way. He
telegraphed to the police at Worcester; saying, in the message, that
these country officers were no better than dummies; and openly lamented
at home that it had not happened at Dyke Manor, within the range of old
Jones the constable.

Tod disappeared with the last sound of the bells. Just as the pater's
head was full of the brick-fields, his was of the Ravine; that he had
gone off to beat it again I was sure. In a trouble such as this you want
incessantly to be up and doing. Lena and Hannah came back from church,
the child calling for Hugh: she wanted to tell him about the gentleman
who had preached in big white sleeves and pretty frills on his wrists.

Two o'clock was the Sunday dinner-hour. Tod came in when it was
striking. He looked dead-beat as he sat down to carve in his father's
place. The sirloin of beef was as good as usual, but only Lena seemed to
think so. The little gobbler ate two servings, and a heap of raspberry
pie and cream.

How it happened, I don't know. I was just as anxious as any of them,
and yet, in sitting under the mulberry-tree, I fell fast asleep, never
waking till five. Mrs. Todhetley, always finding excuses for us, said it
was worry and want of proper rest. She was sitting close to the window,
her head leaning against it. The Squire had not come home. Tod was
somewhere about, she did not know where.

I found him in the yard. Luke Mackintosh was harnessing the pony to
the gig, Tod helping him in a state of excitement. Some man had come in
with a tale that a tribe of gipsies was discovered, encamped beyond the
brick-fields, who seemed to have been there for a week past. Tod jumped
to the conclusion that Hugh was concealed with them, and was about to go
off in search.

"Will you come with me, Johnny? Luke must remain in case the Squire
rides in."

"Of course I will. I'll run and tell Mrs. Todhetley."

"Stay where you are, you stupid muff. To excite her hopes, in the
uncertainty, would be cruel. Get up."

Tod need not have talked about excited hopes. He was just three parts
mad. Fancy his great strong hands shaking as he took the reins! The pony
dashed off in a fright with the cut he gave it, and brought us cleverly
against the post of the gate, breaking the near shaft. Over _that_, but
for the delay, Tod would have been cool as an orange.

"The phaeton now, single horse," he called out to Mackintosh.

"Yes, sir. Bob, or Blister?"

Tod stamped his foot in a passion. "As if it mattered! Blister; he is
the more fiery of the two."

"I must get the harness," said Mackintosh. "It is in the yellow barn."

Mackintosh went round on the run to gain the front barn; the harness,
least used, was kept there, hung on the walls. Tod unharnessed the pony,
left me to lead him to the stable, and went after the man. In his state
of impatience and his strength, he could have done the work of ten men.
He met Mackintosh coming out of the barn, without the harness, but with
a white face. Since he saw the ghost's light on Friday night the man had
been scared at shadows.

"There's sum'at in there, master," said he, his teeth chattering.

"What?" roared Tod, in desperate anger.

"There _is_, master. It's like a faint tapping."

Tod dashed in, controlling his hands, lest they might take French leave
and strike Luke for a coward. He was seeking the proper set of harness,
when a knocking, faint and irregular, smote his ear. Tod turned to look,
and thought it came from the staircase-door. He went forward and opened
it.

Lying at the foot of the stairs was Hugh. Hugh! Low, and weak, and
faint, there he lay, his blue eyes only half opened, and his pretty
curls mingling with the dust.

"Hugh! is it you, my darling?"

Tod's gasp was like a great cry. Hugh put up his little feeble hand, and
a smile parted his lips.

"Yes, it's me, Joe."

The riddle is easily solved. When sent back by me, Hugh saw Hannah in
the fold-yard; she was, in point of fact, looking after him. In his
fear, he stole round to hide in the shrubbery, and thence got to the
front of the house, and ran away down the road. Seeing the front
barn-door open, for it was when Luke Mackintosh was getting the corn,
Hugh slipped in and hid behind the door. Luke went out with the first
lot of corn, and the senseless child, hearing Tod's voice outside, got
into the place leading to the stairs, and shut the door. Luke, talking
to Tod, who had stepped inside the barn, saw the door was shut and
slipped the big outside bolt, _never remembering that it was not he who
had shut it_. Poor little Hugh, when their voices had died away, ran
upstairs to get to the upper granary, and found its door fastened.
And there the child was shut up beyond reach of call and hearing. The
skylight in the roof, miles, as it seemed, above him, had its ventilator
open. He had called and called; but his voice must have been lost amidst
the space of the barn. It was too weak to disturb a rat now.

Tod took him up in his arms, tenderly as if he had been a new-born baby
that he was hushing to the rest of death.

"Were you frightened, child?"

"I was till I heard the church-bells," whispered Hugh. "I don't know how
long it was--oh, a great while--and I had ate the biscuit Johnny gave me
and been asleep. I was not frightened then, Joe; I thought they'd come
to me when church was over."

I met the procession. What the dirty object might be in Tod's arms was
quite a mystery at first. Tod's eyes were dropping tears upon it, and
his breath seemed laboured. Luke brought up the rear a few yards behind,
looking as if he'd never find his senses again.

"Oh, Tod! will he get over it?"

"Yes. Please God."

"Is he injured?"

"No, no. Get out of my way, Johnny. Go to the mother now, if you like.
Tell her he has only been shut up in the barn and I'm coming in with
him. The dirt's nothing: it was on him before."

Just as meek and gentle she stood as ever, the tears rolling down her
face, and a quiet joy in it. Tod brought him in, laying him across her
knee as she sat on the sofa.

"There," he said. "He'll be all right when he has been washed and had
something to eat."

"God bless you, Joseph!" she whispered.

Tod could say no more. He bent to kiss Hugh; lifted his face, and kissed
the mother. And then he went rushing out with a burst of emotion.
