"I have no experience of my own to relate," said Dr. W., "but in the
course of my late tour in Scotland, I went amongst other places to Skye,
and I found the whole island talking of an event that had just happened
there, which may perhaps interest you. There was a tradesman in Portree
of the name of Robertson; I believe he was a sort of general dealer, as
shopkeepers frequently are in those remote localities. Whatever his
business was, however, it frequently took him to the other islands or
the mainland to make purchases. He had arranged to go on one of these
expeditious, I think to Raasa, when a friend called to inform him that a
meeting of the inhabitants was to be held on some public question in
which he, Robertson, was much interested."

"'You had better defer going till after Friday,' said Mr. Brown; 'we
can't do without you, and its very possible you may not get back in
time.'

"'Oh, yes, I can do all my business, and be back very well on Thursday,'
said Mr. Robertson; objecting that if he waited over Friday it would be
no use going till Monday. Brown tried to persuade him to alter his
plans, but in vain; 'however,' said he, 'you may rely on seeing me on
Thursday, if you'll look in, in the evening; as I would not miss the
meeting on any account.'

"This conversation took place at an early hour on Tuesday morning.
Immediately afterwards Mr. Robertson bade his wife and children
good-bye, and proceeded to the boat which left at eleven o'clock, having
on board, besides himself, two other passengers, and two boatmen.

"On Thursday evening, Mr. Brown, who had been busying himself in
fortifying and encouraging their adherents against the next day, and had
taken upon himself to answer for his friend Robertson's presence, as
soon as he had finished business, set off to keep his appointment with
the latter, anxious to ascertain that he was arrived.

"His anxiety was soon relieved, for on his way he met him.

"'Well, here you are,' said he, holding out his hand.

"'Yes,' answered Robertson, not appearing to notice the hand, 'I have
kept my promise.'

"Upon that Mr. Brown introduced the subject of the meeting, and
mentioned the hopes he had of carrying the question, with which
Robertson seemed satisfied; but as soon as possible turning the
conversation into another direction, he began talking to his friend
about his wife and children, and certain arrangements he had wished to
be made respecting his property.

"His mind seemed so much more engrossed with these matters than the
meeting, that little was said upon the latter subject, and Mr. Brown,
having parted with him in the street, rather wondered why he chose such
a moment to discuss his private affairs.

"The next morning, at the appointed hour, the principal inhabitants of
the place assembled in a public room at the Tun. Brown, who wanted to
say a word to Robertson, lingered at the door; but as he did not come,
he thought he must have arrived before himself, and went up stairs.

"'Is Robertson here?' said he, on entering the room.

"'No,' said one, 'I'm afraid he's not come back from Raasa.'

"'Oh, yes,' said Brown, 'he'll be here; I saw him yesterday evening.'

"They then discoursed about the matter in hand for some time, till
finding the chairman was about to proceed to business, Robertson's
absence was again reverted to.

"'I know he's come back,' said one, 'for I saw him standing at his own
door as I passed last night.'

"'He can't have forgotten it,' said another.

"'Certainly not, for we spoke of it last night,' said Brown.

"'Perhaps he's ill,' suggested somebody.

"'Just send your man to Mr. Robertson's, and say we are waiting for
him,' said Brown to the landlord.

"The landlord left the room to do so; and, in the meantime, they
proceeded to business.

"Presently, the landlord re-entered the room, saying, that Mrs.
Robertson answered that her husband had not returned from Raasa, and
that she did not much expect he would be back till night.

"'Nonsense,' cried Brown, 'Why, I saw the man yesterday according to
appointment, and had a long conversation with him.'

"'I am sure he's come back,' said one who had spoke before. 'I was
coming down the street on the other side of the way, and I saw him
standing at the door with his apron on. I should have crossed over to
speak to him, but I was in a hurry.'

"'It's extraordinary,' said the landlord: 'Mrs. Robertson declares he's
not come.'

"Some jokes were then passed about the apparent defection of Robertson
from his spouse, and the meeting concluded their business without him,
his party being exceedingly annoyed at his absence, which they thought
not fair to the cause.

"'He should have given us his support.'

"'I suppose he has altered his opinions.'

"'Then he had better have said so.'

"'It struck me, certainly, that he was rather lukewarm on the subject
when I talked to him last night; but on Tuesday I saw him just before he
started, and he said he would not miss the meeting on any account. I'll
go and look after him and know what he means.'

"Accordingly, Brown proceeded to his friend's house, and found Mrs.
Robertson and her children at dinner.

"'Weel," Mr. Brown,' she said, 'so your meeting's over.'

"'Aye,' said he, 'but where's Robertson? Why didn't he keep his word
with us?'

"'Why, you see, I dare say he meant to be back--indeed, I know he did:
but business won't be neglected, and I suppose he could not manage it.'

"'Do you mean to say he's not come back!' said Brown.

"'Sure, I do,' answered Mrs. R. 'Of course, he'd have been at the
meeting if he had.'

"'But people saw him last night, standing at his own door,' answered the
cautious Brown.

"'Na, na, Mr. Brown, don't you believe that,' said Mrs. R., laughing;
they that say that had too much whiskey in their een.'

"The children laughed at the idea of anybody seeing their father when he
was at Raasa, and on the whole it was evident, that if John Robertson
had returned, it was unknown to his family. But what could be his reason
for so strange a proceeding, and why, if he wanted to evade the meeting,
had he needlessly shown himself at all? Why not really stay away from
Portree?

"However, Robertson did not appear; and later in the day the landlord of
the Tun said to Brown, as he was passing the door, 'You must have been
mistaken about seeing Mr. Robertson; the boat from Raasa is not come
in.'

"'Then he must have come over by some other, for I not only saw him but
walked and talked with him. I can't think what he can mean by playing
at Hide and Seek in this way?'

"'It's very extraordinary,' said the landlord, 'for I am expecting a
hamper from Raasa; and so, hearing from you that Mr. Robertson was come,
I went down to inquire about it; but they declare no boat of any sort
has come in these two days; the wind's right against them.'

"'I know the boat from Raasa is not come back,' said the porter; 'for I
saw Jenny McGill just now, and she says her husband is not returned.'

"'Really you'll persuade me that I'm not in my right senses,' said the
perplexed Brown. 'If ever I saw Robertson in my life I saw him last
night; I was going to call upon him, as he had asked me to do so before
he went away; but I met him, not far from my own house; and what is
more, he told me of a thing I did not know before, regarding a purchase
he had made, and spoke of what he intended to do with it.'

"'It's most extraordinary,' said the landlord.

"'Eh, sirs,' said an old fishwife, who was standing by, 'I wish it may
not be John Robertson's ghaist that ye saw, for the wind's sair agin
them, and I'd a bad dream about Jamie McGill last night.'

"They all laughed; but this was the first suggestion of the sort that
had been made; and though he would not confess it, Brown began to feel
rather uncomfortable; the more so as several things were recalled to his
memory that had not struck him at the time. He remembered that Robertson
had avoided shaking hands with him, either on meeting or parting, as was
his wont; he had even then been struck with the grave tone of his
conversation, and with his choosing that particular moment for pressing
on his friend's attention what did not appear to have any urgent
interest at present. Then it occurred to him that he looked ill and
sad--he had attributed this to fatigue; but now, putting everything
together, he could not help feeling a considerable degree of uneasiness.
He kept hovering about Robertson's house, and from that to the shore all
day; went to bed at night quite nervous; and by the next afternoon the
alarm had spread and become universal. It was not without cause.

"John Robertson never came back; the boat had been lost--how, was not
known, as all on board had perished. However, Mr. Brown took upon
himself to be the friend and guardian of the bereaved family; and the
information he received in that melancholy interview he was enabled to
turn much to the advantage of their circumstances."

"A very remarkable story," said I.

"Yes," answered Dr. W. "very remarkable indeed, if true."

"And is it not true," I said, "remember, we are upon honour; I should
think it a very ill compliment if any one attempted to mystify us with
an invented story."

"I did not invent it, I assure you," replied Dr. W.; "I give it you as
it was given to me on the spot. If you ask me if I believe it, I can't
say I do."

"Do you think the people who told you believed it?"

"They certainly appeared to do so."

"And did it seem generally believed?"

"I can't say but it did; but of course, one must have wonderfully strong
evidence before one could believe such a thing as that."

"Granted; but unless you had seen the thing yourself, you cannot have
stronger evidence of a phenomenon of that description, than that it was
believed by those who had good reason to know the grounds of their
belief. They were able to judge how far Mr. Brown was worthy of credit;
and they had the advantage of having witnessed his demeanour at the
public meeting, when he asserted that he had walked and talked with
Robertson, at a time he could not possibly know if he was telling a lie,
that the man would not sooner or later return to confute him. Besides,
as far as we see, it would have been a useless and wicked lie, inasmuch
as it was calculated to make the man's family very uneasy. His
subsequent conduct does not at all countenance the persuasion that he
was capable of such a proceeding.'

"Certainly not; but you know the Scotch are very superstitious."

"I can't agree with you; the higher and lower classes of the towns are
exactly similar in that respect to the same classes of England. In all
countries the lower classes are more disposed to put faith in these
things, because they believe in their traditions and adhere to the axiom
that seeing is believing. The higher classes, on the other hand, are
carefully educated not to believe in such traditions and to reject the
axiom that seeing is believing, if the thing seen is a ghost. Now I
freely admit, that our senses often deceive us, and that we think we see
what we do not; every body with the slightest intelligence has, I
suppose, learnt to distrust his own senses to a certain extent; but why
on one particular point we should reject their evidence altogether, I
never could understand."

"You have heard, I suppose of spectral illusions?" said the Doctor.

"Of course I have, and admit their existence; but we have so many cases
on our side, that doctrine will not cover, and it is so impossible for
you to prove that any particular case of ghost seeing falls under that
head, that it is no use discussing the subject. It complicates the
difficulty I confess, but can never decide the question. I was going to
say, however, that the shopkeepers and middle classes of Scotland are
anything but what you mean by superstitious--the class to whom Brown and
Robertson belong, is the most hardheaded, argumentative, and matter of
fact in the kingdom; and their religion, which is eminently
unimaginative, so far from inducing a belief in ghosts, would have a
precisely opposite tendency, because ghosts do not form an article of
belief in either the longer or shorter catechism. In the remoter
districts of the Highlands, the people are said to have more of what you
would call superstition; but the same peculiarity is remarked in all
mountainous regions; and as it has never been satisfactorily accounted
for, we will not enter into the discussion now."

ROUND THE FIRE.
