CHARLOTTE AND CHARLOTTE.

I.

People are apt to say, when telling of a surprise, that a feather would
have knocked them down. I nearly fell without the feather and without
the touch. To see a dead woman standing straight up before me, and to
hear her say "How are you, and is the Squire at home?" might have upset
the balance of a giant.

But I could not be mistaken. There, waiting at the front-door to come
in, her face within an inch of mine, was Nash Caromel's first wife,
Charlotte Tinkle; who for some two years now had been looked upon as
dead and buried over in California.

"Is Mr. Todhetley at home!" she repeated. "And can I see him?"

"Yes," I answered, coming partially out of my bewilderment. "Do you mind
staying here just a minute, while I tell him?"

For, to hand in a dead woman, might take him aback, as it had taken me.
The pater stood bolt upright, waiting for Mrs. Scott (as he had supposed
it to be) to enter.

"It is not Mrs. Scott," I whispered, shutting the door and going close
up to him. "It--it is some one else. I hardly like to tell you, sir; she
may give you a fright."

"Why, what does the lad mean?--what are you making a mystery of now,
Johnny?" cried he, staring at me. "Give me a fright! I should like to
see any woman give me that. Is it Mrs. Scott, or is it not?"

"It is some one we thought dead, sir."

"Now, Johnny, don't be a muff. Somebody you thought dead! What on
earth's come to you, lad? Speak out!"

"It is Nash Caromel's first wife, sir: Charlotte Tinkle."

The pater gazed at me as a man bereft of reason. I don't believe he
knew whether he stood on his head or his heels. "Charlotte Tinkle!" he
exclaimed, backing against the curtain. "What, come to life, Johnny?"

"Yes, sir, and she wants to see you. Perhaps she has never been dead."

"Bless my heart and mind! Bring her in."

The first thing Charlotte the First did when she came in and the Squire
clasped her by her two hands, was to burst into a fit of sobbing. Some
wine stood on the sideboard; the Squire poured her out a glass, and she
untied the strings of her bonnet as she sat down.

"If I might take it off for a minute?" she said. "I have had it on all
the way from Liverpool."

"Do so, my dear. Goodness me! I think I must be in a dream. And so you
are not dead!"

"Yes, I knew it was what you must have all been thinking," she answered,
stifling her sobs. "Poor Nash!--what a dreadful thing it is! I cannot
imagine how the misconception can have arisen."

"What misconception?" asked the pater, whose wits, once gone a
wool-gathering, rarely came back in a hurry.

"That I had died."

"Why, that friend of yours with whom you were staying--Bunn--Munn--which
was it, Johnny?--wrote to tell your husband so."

Mrs. Nash Caromel, sitting there in the twilight, her brown hair as
smooth as ever and her eyes as meek, looked at the Squire in surprise.

"Oh no, that could not have been; Mr. Munn would not be likely to write
anything of the sort. Impossible."

"But, my dear lady, I read the letter. Your husband brought it to me as
soon as it reached him. You remained at San Francisco, very ill after
Nash's departure, and you got no better, and died at last of low fever."

She shook her head. "I was very poorly indeed when Nash left, but I grew
better shortly. I had no low fever, and I certainly did not die."

"Then why did Munn write it?"

"He did not write it. He could not have written it. I am quite certain
of that. He and his wife are my very good and dear friends, and most
estimable people."

"The letter certainly came to your husband," persisted the Squire. "I
read it with my own eyes. It was dated San Francisco, and signed Francis
Munn."

"Then it was a forgery. But why any one should have written it, or
troubled themselves about me and my husband at all, I cannot imagine."

"And then, Nash--Nash---- Good gracious, what a complication!" cried the
Squire, breaking off what he meant to say, as the thought of Charlotte
Nave crossed his mind.

"I know," she quietly put in: "Nash has married again."

It was a complication, and no mistake, all things considered. The Squire
rubbed up his hair and deliberated, and then bethought himself that it
might be as well to keep the servants out of the room. So I went to tell
old Thomas that the master was particularly engaged with a friend, and
no one was to come in unless rung for. Then I ran upstairs to whisper
the news to the mother--and it pretty nearly sent her into a fit of
hysterics.

Charlotte Caromel was entering on her history to the Squire when I got
back. "Yes," she said, "I and my husband went to California, having
found little luck in America. Nash made one or two ventures there also,
but nothing seemed to succeed; not as well even as it did in America,
and he resolved to go back there, and try at something or other again.
He sailed for New York, leaving me in San Francisco with Francis Munn
and his wife; for I had been ill, and was not strong enough for the
tedious voyage. The Munns kept a dry-goods store at San Francisco,
and----"

"A dry-goods store!" interrupted the Squire.

"Yes. You cannot afford to be fastidious over there; and to be in trade
is looked upon as an honour, rather than the contrary. Francis Munn
was the youngest son of a country gentleman in England; he went to
California to make his fortune at anything that might turn up; and it
ended in his marrying and keeping a store. They made plenty of money,
and were very kind to me and Nash. Well, Nash started for New York,
leaving me with them, and he wrote to me soon after his arrival there.
Things were looking gloomy in the States, he said, and he felt inclined
to take a run over to England, and ask his brother Miles to help him
with some money. I wrote back a letter in duplicate, addressing one to
the agents' in New York, the other to Caromel's Farm--not knowing, you
perceive, in which place he might be. No answer reached me--but people
think little of the safety of letters out there, so many seem to
miscarry. We fancied Nash might be coming back to San Francisco and did
not trouble himself to write: like me, he is not much of a scribe. But
the months went on, and he did not come; he neither came nor wrote."

"What did you think hindered him?"

"We did not know what to think--except, as I say, that the letters had
miscarried. One day Mr. Munn brought in a file of English newspapers for
me and his wife to read: and in one of them I saw an announcement that
puzzled me greatly--the marriage of one Nash Caromel, of Caromel's Farm,
to Charlotte Nave. Just at first it startled me; I own that; but I
felt so sure it could not be my Nash, my husband, that I remained only
puzzled to know what Nash Caromel it could be."

"There is only one Nash Caromel," growled the Squire, half inclined to
tell her she was a simpleton--taking things in this equable way.

"I only knew of him; but I thought he must have some relative, a cousin
perhaps, of the same name, of whom I had not heard. However," continued
Charlotte, "I wrote then to Caromel's Farm, telling Nash what we had
read, and asking him what it meant, and where he was. But that letter
shared the fate of the former one, and obtained no reply. In the course
of time we saw another announcement--The wife of Nash Caromel of a son.
Still I did not believe it could be my Nash, but I could see that Mr.
Munn did believe it was. At least he thought there was something strange
about it all, especially our not hearing from Nash: and at length I
determined to come home and see about it."

"You must have been a long time coming," remarked the Squire. "The child
is fifteen months old."

"But you must remember that often we did not get news until six months
after its date. And I chose a most unfortunate route--overland from
California to New York."

"What on earth---- Why, people are sometimes a twelvemonth or so doing
that!" cried the Squire. "There are rocky mountains to scale, as I've
heard and read, and Red Indians to encounter, and all sorts of horrors.
Those who undertake it travel in bands, do they not? and are called
pilgrims, and some of them don't get to the end of the journey alive."

"True," she sighed. "I would never have attempted it had I known what it
would be: but I did so dread the sea. Several of us were laid up midway,
and had to be left behind at a small settlement: one or two died. It was
a long, long time, and only after surmounting great discomforts and
difficulties, we reached New York."

"Well?" said the Squire. It must be remembered that they were speaking
of days now gone by, when the journey was just what she described it.

"I could hear nothing of my husband in New York," she resumed, "except
that Abraham Whitter believed him to be at home here. I took the steamer
for Liverpool, landed at dawn this morning, and came on by rail. And I
find it is my husband who is married. And what am I to do?"

She melted away into tears again. The Squire told her that she must
present herself at the farm; she was its legal mistress, and Nash
Caromel's true wife. But she shook her head at this: she wouldn't bring
any such trouble upon Nash for the world, as to show him suddenly that
she was living. What he had done he must have done unwittingly, she
said, believing her to be dead, and he ought not to suffer for it more
than could be helped. Which was a lenient way of reasoning that put the
Squire's temper up.

"He deserves no quarter, ma'am, and _I_ will not give it him if you do.
Within a week of the time he heard of your death he went and took that
Charlotte Nave. Though I expect it was she who took him--brazen hussy!
And I am glad you have come to put her out!"

But, nothing would induce Charlotte the First to assume this view, or to
admit that blame could attach to Nash. Once he had lost her by death, he
had a right to marry again, she contended. As to the haste--well, she
had been dead (as he supposed) a great many months when he heard of it,
and that should be considered. The Squire exploded, and walked about
the room, and rubbed his hair the wrong way, and thought her no better
than an imbecile.

Mrs. Todhetley came in, and there was a little scene. Charlotte declined
our offer of a bed and refreshment, saying she would like to go to her
mother's for the night: she felt that she should be received gladly,
though they had parted in anger and had held no communication with one
another since.

Gladly? ay, joyfully. Little doubt of that. So the Squire put on his
hat, and she her bonnet, and away they started, and I with them.

We took the lonely path across the fields: her appearance might have
raised a stir in the highway. Charlotte was but little altered, and
would have been recognized at once. And I have no space to tell of the
scene at Mrs. Tinkle's, which was as good as a play, or of the way they
rushed into one another's arms.

"Johnny, there's something on my mind," said the Squire in a low tone as
we were going back towards home: and he was looking grave and silent as
a judge. "Do you remember those two foreign letters we chanced to see of
Nash Caromel's, with the odd handwriting, all quavers and tails?"

"Yes, I do, sir. They were ship letters."

"Well, lad, a very ugly suspicion has come into my head, and I can't
drive it away. I believe those two letters were from Charlotte--the two
she speaks of--I believe the handwriting which puzzled me was hers. Now,
if so, Nash went to the altar with that other Charlotte, knowing this
one was alive: for the first letter came the day before the marriage."

I did not answer. But I remembered what I had overheard Nave the lawyer
say to Nash Caromel: "You must marry her: where there's a will there's
a way"--or words to that effect. Had Nave concocted the letters which
pretended to tell of Mrs. Nash Caromel's death, and got them posted to
Nash from New York?

With the morning, the Squire was at Caromel's Farm. The old-fashioned
low house, the sun shining on its quaint windows, looked still and quiet
as he walked up to the front-door across the grass-plat, in the middle
of which grew a fine mulberry-tree. The news of Charlotte's return, as
he was soon to find, had travelled to it already; had spread to the
village. For she had been recognized the night before on her arrival;
and her boxes, left in charge of a porter, bore her full name, Mrs. Nash
Caromel.

Nash stood in that little library of his in a state of agitation not to
be described; he as good as confessed, when the Squire tackled him, that
he _had_ known his wife might have been alive, and that it was all
Nave's doings. At least he suspected that the letter, telling of her
death, might be a forgery.

"Anyway, you had a letter from her the day before you married, so you
must have known it by that," cried the Squire; who had so much to do
always with the Caromel family that he deemed it his duty to interfere.
"What on earth could have possessed you?"

"I--was driven into a corner," gasped Nash.

"I'd be driven into fifty corners before I'd marry two wives," retorted
the Squire. "And now, sir, what do you mean to do?"

"I can't tell," answered Nash.

"A pretty kettle of fish this is! What do you suppose your father would
have said to it?"

"I'm sure I can't tell," repeated Nash helplessly, biting his lips to
get some life into them.

"And what's the matter with your hands that they are so hot and white?"

Nash glanced at his hands, and hid them away in his pockets. He looked
like a man consumed by inward fever.

"I have not been over well for some time past," said he.

"No wonder--with the consciousness of this discovery hanging over your
head! It might have sent some men into their graves."

Nash drummed upon the window pane. What in the world to do, what to say,
evidently he knew not.

"You must put away this Jez--this lady," went on the Squire. "It was she
who bewitched you; ay, and set herself out to do it, as all the parish
saw. Let her go back to her father: you might make some provision for
her: and instal your wife here in her proper place. Poor thing! she is
so meek and patient! She won't hear a word said against you; thinks you
are a saint. _I_ think you a scoundrel, Nash: and I tell you so to your
face."

The door had slowly opened; somebody, who had been outside, listening,
put in her head. A very pretty head, and that's the truth, surmounting
a fashionable morning costume of rose-coloured muslin, all flounces and
furbelows. It was Charlotte the Second. The Squire had called her a
brazen hussy behind her back; he had much ado this morning not to call
her so to her face.

"What's that I hear you saying to my husband, Mr. Todhetley--that he
should discard me and admit that creature here! How dare you bring your
pernicious counsels into this house?"

"Why, bless my heart, he is her husband, madam; he is not yours. You'd
not stay here yourself, surely!"

"This is my home, and he is _my_ husband, and my child is his heir; and
that woman may go back over the seas whence she came. Is it not so,
Nash? Tell him."

She put her hand on Nash's shoulder, and he tried to get out something
or other in obedience to her. He was as much under her finger and thumb
as Punch in the street is under the showman's. The Squire went into a
purple heat.

"You married him by craft, madam--as I believe from my very soul: you
married him, knowing, you and your father also, that his wife was alive.
He knew it, too. The motive must have been one of urgency, I should say,
but I've nothing to do with that----"

"Nor with any other business of ours," she answered with a brazen face.

"This business is mine, and all Church Dykely's," flashed the Squire.
"It is public property. And now, I ask you both, what you mean to do in
this dilemma you have brought upon yourselves? His wife is waiting to
come in, and you cannot keep her out."

"She shall never come in; I tell you that," flashed Charlotte the
Second. "She sent word to him that she was dead, and she must abide
by it; from that time she was dead to him, dead for ever. Mr. Caromel
married me equally in the eyes of the world: and here I shall stay with
him, his true and lawful wife."

The Squire rubbed his face; the torrent of words and the heat made it
glisten.

"Stay here, would you, madam! What luck do you suppose would come of
that?"

"Luck! I have quite as much luck as I require. Nash, why do you not
request this--this gentleman to leave us?"

"Why, he _dare_ not keep you here," cried the Squire, passing over the
last compliment. "He would be prosecuted for--you know what."

"Let him be prosecuted! Let the wicked woman do her worst. Let her bring
an action, and we'll defend it. I have more right to him than she has.
Mr. Caromel, _do_ you wish to keep up this interview until night?"

"Perhaps you had better go now, Squire," put in the man pleadingly.
"I--I will consult Nave, and see what's to be done. She may like to go
back to California, to the Munns; the climate suited her: and--and an
income might be arranged."

This put the finishing stroke to the Squire's temper. He flung out of
the room with a few unorthodox words, and came home in a tantrum.

We had had times of commotion at Church Dykely before, but this affair
capped all. The one Mrs. Nash Caromel waiting to go into her house, and
the other Mrs. Nash Caromel refusing to go out of it to make room for
her. The Squire was right when saying it was public property: the public
made it theirs. Tongues pitched into Nash Caromel in the fields and in
the road: but some few of us pitied him, thinking what on earth we could
do ourselves in a like position. While old Jones the constable stalked
briskly about, expecting to get a warrant for taking up the master of
Caromel's Farm.

But the great drawback to instituting legal proceedings lay with Mrs.
Nash Caromel the First. She declined to prosecute. Her husband might
refuse to receive her; might hold himself aloof from her; might keep his
second wife by his side; but she would never hurt a hair of his head.
Heaven might bring things round in its own good time, she said;
meanwhile she would submit--and bear.

And she held to this, driving indignant men distracted. They argued,
they persuaded, they remonstrated; it was said that one or two
strong-minded ones _swore_. All the same. She stayed on at her mother's,
and would neither injure her husband herself, nor let her family injure
him. Henry Tinkle, her brother, chanced to be from home (as he was when
she had run away to be married), or he might have acted in spite of her.
And, when this state of things had continued for two or three weeks, the
world began to call it a "crying scandal." As to Nash Caromel, he did
not show his face abroad.

"Not a day longer shall the fellow retain my money," said the pater,
speaking of the twelve hundred pounds he had lent to Nash: and in fact
the term it had been lent for was already up. But it is easier to make
such a threat than to enforce it; and it is not everybody who can
extract twelve hundred pounds at will from uncertain coffers. Any way
the Squire found he could not. He wrote to Nash, demanding its return;
and he wrote to Nave.

Nash did not answer him at all. Nave's clerk sent a semi-insolent
letter, saying Mr. Caromel should be communicated with when occasion
offered. The Squire wrote in a rage to his lawyer at Worcester, bidding
him enforce the repayment.

"You two lads can take the letter to the post," said he.

But we had not got many yards from home when we heard the Squire coming
after us. We all walked into Church Dykely together; and close to the
post-office, which was at Dame Chad's shop, we met Duffham. Of course
the Squire, who could not keep anything in had he been bribed to do it,
told Duffham what steps he was about to take.

"Going to enforce payment," nodded Duffham. "The man deserves no
quarter. But he is ill."

"Serve him right. What's the matter with him?"

"Nervous fever. Has fretted or frightened himself into it. Report says
that he is very ill indeed."

"Don't you attend him?"

"Not I. I did not please madam at the time the boy was born--would not
give in to some of her whims and fancies. They have called in that new
doctor who has settled in the next parish, young Bluck."

"Why, he is no better than an apothecary's boy, that young Bluck!
Caromel can't be very ill, if they have him."

"So ill, that, as I have just heard, he is in great danger--likely to
die," replied Duffham, tapping his cane against the ledge of Dame Chad's
window. "Bluck's young, but he is clever."

"Bless my heart! Likely to die! What, Nash Caromel! Here, you lads, if
that's it, I won't annoy him just now about the money, so don't post the
letter."

"It is posted," said Tod. "I have just put it in."

"Go in and explain to Dame Chad, and get it out again. Or, stay; the
letter can go, and I'll write and say it's not to be acted on until
he is well again. Nervous fever! I'm afraid his conscience has been
pricking him."

"I hope it has," said Duffham.

II.

A few days went on. Nash Caromel lay in the greatest danger. Nave was at
the farm day and night. A physician was called in from a distance to aid
young Bluck; but it was understood that there remained very little hope
of recovery. We began to feel sorry for Nash and to excuse his offences,
the Squire especially. It was all that strong-minded young woman's
doings, said he; she had drawn him into her toils, and he had not had
the pluck, first or last, to escape from them.

But a change for the better took place; Nash passed the crisis, and
would probably, with care, recover. I think every one felt glad; one
does not wish a fellow quite to die, though he has misinterpreted the
laws on the ticklish subject of matrimony. And the Squire felt vexed
later when he learned that his lawyer had disregarded his countermanding
letter and sent a peremptory threat to Nash of enforcing instant
proceedings, unless the money was repaid forthwith. That was not the
only threat conveyed to Caromel's Farm. Harry Tinkle returned; and,
despite his sister's protestations, took the matter into his own hands,
and applied for the warrant that had been so much talked about. As
soon as Nash Caromel could leave his bed, he would be taken before the
magistrates.

Soon a morning came that we did not forget in a hurry. While dressing
with the window open to the white flowers of the trailing jessamine and
the sweet perfume of the roses, blooming in the warm September air, Tod
came in, fastening his braces.

"I say, Johnny, here's the jolliest lark! The pater----"

And what the lark was, I don't know to this day. At that moment the
passing-bell tolled out--three times three; its succession of quick
strokes following it. The wind blew in our direction from the church,
and it sounded almost as though it were in the room.

"Who can be dead?" cried Tod, stretching his neck out at the window to
listen. "Was any one ill, Jenkins?" he called to the head-gardener, then
coming up the path with a barrow; "do you know who that bell's tolling
for?"

"It's for Mr. Caromel," answered Jenkins.

"What?" shouted Tod.

"It's tolling for Mr. Caromel, sir. He died in the night."

It was a shock to us all. The Squire, pocketing his indignation against
madam and the Nave family in general, went over to the farm after
breakfast, and saw Miss Gwendolen Nave, who was staying with her sister.
They called her Gwinny.

"We heard that he was better--going on so well," gasped the Squire.

"So he was until a day or two ago," said Miss Gwinny, holding her
handkerchief to her eyes. "Very well indeed until then--when it turned
to typhus."

"Goodness bless me!" cried the Squire, an unpleasant feeling running
through him. "Typhus!"

"Yes, I am sorry to say."

"Is it safe to be here? Safe for you all?"

"Of course it is a risk. We try not to be afraid, and have sent as many
out of the house as we could. I and the old servant Grizzel alone remain
with Mrs. Caromel. The baby has gone to papa's."

"Dear me, dear me! I was intending to ask to look at poor Nash; we have
known each other always, you see. But, perhaps it would not be prudent."

"It would be very imprudent, Mr. Todhetley. The sickness was of the
worst type; it might involve not only your own death, but that of
others to whom you might in turn carry it. You have a wife and children,
sir."

"Yes, yes, quite right," rejoined the Squire. "Poor Nash! How is--your
sister?" He would not, even at that trying moment for them, call her
Mrs. Caromel.

"Oh, she is very ill; shocked and grieved almost to death. For all we
know, she has taken the fever and may follow her husband; she attended
upon him to the last. I hope that woman, who came here to disturb the
peace of a happy family, that Charlotte Tinkle, will reap the fruit of
what she has sown, for it is all owing to her."

"People do mostly reap the fruit of their own actions, whether they are
good or bad," observed the Squire to this, as he got up to leave. But he
would not add what he thought--that it was another Charlotte who ought
to reap what she had sown. And who appeared to be doing it.

"Did the poor fellow suffer much?"

"Not at the last," said Miss Gwinny. "His strength was gone, and he lay
for many hours insensible. Up to yesterday evening we thought he might
recover. Oh, it is a dreadful calamity!"

Indeed it was. The Squire came away echoing the words in his heart.

Three days later the funeral took place: it would not do to delay it
longer. The Squire went to it: when a man was dead, he thought animosity
should cease. Harry Tinkle would not go. Caromel, he said, had escaped
him and the law, to which he had rendered himself amenable, and nobody
might grumble at it, for it was the good pleasure of Heaven, but he
would not show Caromel respect, dead or living.

All the parish seemed to have been bidden to the funeral. Some went,
some did not go. It looked a regular crowd, winding down the lawn and
down the avenue. Few ventured indoors; they preferred to assemble
outside: for an exaggerated fear of Caromel's Farm and what might be
caught in it, ran through the community. So, when the men came out of
the house, staggering under the black velvet pall with its deep white
border, followed by Lawyer Nave, the company fell up into line behind.

Little Dun would have been the legal heir to the property had there been
no Charlotte the First. That complication stood in his way, and he could
no more inherit it than I could. Under the peculiar circumstances _there
was no male heir living_, and Nash Caromel, the last of his name, had
the power to make a will. Whether he had done so, or not, was not known;
but the question was set at rest after the return from the funeral. Nave
had gone strutting next the coffin as chief mourner, and he now produced
the will. Half-a-dozen gentlemen had entered, the Squire one of them.

It was executed, the will, all in due form, having been drawn up by a
lawyer from a distance; not by Nave, who may have thought it as well to
keep his fingers out of the pie. A few days after the return of
Charlotte the First, when Nash first became ill, the strange lawyer was
called in, and the will was made.

Caromel's Farm and every stick and stone upon it, and all other
properties possessed by Nash, were bequeathed to the little boy, Duncan
Nave (as it was worded), otherwise Duncan Nave Caromel. Not to him
unconditionally, but to be placed in the hands of trustees for his
ultimate benefit. The child's mother (called in the will Charlotte Nave,
otherwise Charlotte Caromel) was to remain at the farm if she pleased,
and to receive the yearly income derived from it for the mutual
maintenance of herself and child. When the child should be twenty-one,
he was to assume full possession, but his mother was at liberty to
continue to have her home with him. In short, they took all; Charlotte
Tinkle, nothing.

"It is a wicked will," cried one of the hearers when they came out from
listening to it.

"And it won't prosper them; you see if it does," added the Squire. "She
stands in the place of Charlotte Tinkle. The least Caromel could have
done, was to divide the property between them."

So that was the apparent ending of the Caromel business, which had
caused the scandal in our quiet place, and a very unjust ending it was.
Charlotte Tinkle, who had not a sixpence of her own in the world,
remained on with her mother. She would come to church in her widow's
mourning, a grievous look of sorrow upon her meek face; people said she
would never get over the cruelty of not having been sent for to say
farewell to her husband when he was dying.

As for Charlotte Nave, she stayed on at the farm without let or
hindrance, calling herself, as before, Mrs. Nash Caromel. She appeared
at church once in a way; not often. Her widow's veil was deeper than the
other widow's, and her goffered cap larger. Nobody took the fever: and
Nave the lawyer sent back the Squire's twelve hundred pounds within
a month of Nash's death. And that, I say, was the ending, as we all
supposed, of the affair at Caromel's Farm.

But curious complications were destined to crop up yet.

III.

Nash Caromel died in September. And in how short, or long, a time it was
afterwards that a very startling report grew to be whispered, I cannot
remember; but I think it must have been at the turn of winter. The two
widows were deep in weeds as ever, but over Charlotte Nave a change had
come. And I really think I had better call them in future Charlotte
Tinkle and Charlotte Nave, or we may get in a fog between the two.

Charlotte Nave grew pale and thin. She ruled the farm, as before,
with the deft hand of a capable woman, but her nature appeared to be
changing, her high spirits to have flown for ever. Instead of filling
the house with company, she secluded herself in it like a hermit, being
scarcely ever seen abroad. Ill-natured people, quoting Shakespeare, said
the thorns, which in her bosom lay, did prick and sting her.

It was reported that the fear of the fever had taken a haunting hold
upon her. She could not get rid of it. Which was on-reasonable, as Nurse
Picker phrased it; for if she'd ha' been to catch it, she'd ha' caught
it at the time. It was not for herself alone she feared it, but for
others, though she did fear it for herself still, very much indeed. An
impression lay on her mind that the fever was not yet out of the house,
and never would be out of it, and that any fresh person, coming in to
reside, would be liable to take it. More than once she was heard to say
she would give a great deal not to be tied to the place--but the farm
could not get on without a head. Before Nash died, when it was known the
disorder had turned to typhus, she had sent all the servants (except
Grizzel) and little Dun out of the house. She would not let them come
back to it. Dun stayed at the lawyer's; the servants in time got other
situations. The gardener's wife went in by day to help old Grizzel with
the work, and some of the out-door men lived in the bailiff's house.
Nave let out one day that he had remonstrated with his daughter in vain.
Some women are cowards in these matters; they can't help being so; and
the inward fear, perpetually tormenting them, makes a havoc of their
daily lives. But in this case the fear had grown to an exaggerated
height. In short, not to mince the matter, it was suspected her brain,
on that one point, was unhinged.

Miss Gwinny could not leave her. Another sister, Harriet Nave, had come
to her father's house, to keep it and take care of little Dun. Dun
was allowed to go into the grounds of the farm and to play under the
mulberry-tree on the lawn; and once or twice on a wet day, it was said,
his mother had taken him into the parlour that opened with glass-doors,
but she never let him run the risk of going in farther. At last old
Nave, as was reported, consulted a mad doctor about her, going all the
way to Droitwich to do it.

But all this had nothing to do with the startling rumour I spoke of.
Things were in this condition when it first arose. It was said that Nash
Caromel "came again."

At first the whisper was not listened to, was ridiculed, laughed at: but
when one or two credible witnesses protested they had seen him, people
began to talk, and then to say there must be something in it.

A little matter that had occurred soon after the funeral, was remembered
then. Nash Caromel had used to wear on his watch-chain a small gold
locket with his own and his wife's hair in it. I mean his real wife.
Mrs. Tinkle wrote a civil note to the mistress of Caromel's Farm asking
that the locket might be restored to her daughter--whose property it in
fact was. She did not receive any answer, and wrote again. The second
letter was returned to Mrs. Tinkle in a blank envelope with a wide black
border.

Upon this, Harry Tinkle took up the matter. Stretching a point for his
sister, who was pining for the locket and Nash's bit of hair in it,
for she possessed no memento at all of her husband, he called at the
farm and saw the lady. Some hard words passed between them: she was
contemptuously haughty; and he was full of inward indignation, not only
at the general treatment accorded to his sister, but also at the unjust
will. At last, stung by some sneering contumely she openly cast upon his
sister, he retorted in her own coin--answering certain words of hers--

"I hope his ghost will haunt you, you false woman!" Meaning, you know,
the ghost of the dead man.

People recalled these words of Harry Tinkle's now, and began to look
upon them (spoken by one of the injured Tinkles) in the light of
prophecy. What with this, and what with their private belief that Nash
Caromel's conscience would hardly allow him to rest quietly in his
grave, they thought it very likely that his ghost _was_ haunting her,
and only hoped it would not haunt the parish.

Was this the cause of the change apparent in her? Could it be that Nash
Caromel's spirit returned to the house in which he died, and that she
could not rest for it? Was this the true reason, and not the fever, why
she kept the child and the servants out of the house?--lest they should
be scared by the sight? Gossips shivered as they whispered to one
another of these unearthly doubts, which soon grew into a belief. But
you must understand that never a syllable had been heard from herself,
or a hint given, that Caromel's Farm was troubled by anything of the
kind; neither did she know, or was likely to hear, that it was talked of
abroad. Meanwhile, as the time slipped on, every now and then something
would occur to renew the report--that Nash Caromel had been seen.

One afternoon, during a ride, the Squire's horse fell lame. On his
return he sent for Dobbs, the blacksmith and farrier. Dobbs promised to
be over about six o'clock; he was obliged to go elsewhere first. When
six o'clock struck, the Squire, naturally impatient, began to look out
for Dobbs. And if he sent Thomas out of the room once during dinner, to
see whether the man had arrived, he sent him half-a-dozen times.

Seven o'clock, and no Dobbs. The pater was in a fume; he did nothing
but walk to and fro between the house and the stables, and call Dobbs
names as he looked out for him. At last, there came a rush across the
fold-yard, and Dobbs appeared, his face looking very peculiar, and his
hair standing up in affright, like a porcupine's quills.

"Why, what on earth has taken you?" began the Squire, surprised out of
the reproach that had been upon his tongue.

"I don't know what has taken me," gasped Dobbs. "Except that I've seen
Mr. Nash Caromel."

"What?" roared the Squire, his surprise changing to anger.

"As true as I'm a living man, I've seen him, sir," persisted Dobbs,
wiping his face with a blue cotton handkerchief. "I've seen his shadow."

"Seen the Dickens!" retorted the Squire, slightingly. "One would think
_he_ was after you, by the way you flew up here. I wonder you are not
ashamed of yourself, Dobbs."

"Being later than I thought to be, sir, I took the field way; it's a bit
shorter," went on Dobbs, attempting to explain. "In passing through that
little copse at the back of Caromel's Farm, I met a curious-looking
shadow of a figure that somehow startled me. May I never stir from this
spot, sir, if it was not Caromel himself."

"You have been drinking, Dobbs."

"A strapping pace I was going at, knowing I was being waited for here,"
continued Dobbs, too much absorbed in his story to heed the sarcasm. "I
never saw Mr. Nash Caromel plainer in his lifetime than I saw him then,
sir. Drinking? No, that I had not been, Squire; the place where I went
to is teetotal. It was up at the Glebe, and they don't have nothing
stronger in their house than tea. They gave me two good cups of that."

"Tea plays some people worse tricks than drink, especially if it is
green," observed the Squire: and I am bound to confess that Dobbs,
apart from his state of fright, seemed as sober as we were. "I wouldn't
confess myself a fool, Dobbs, if I were you."

Dobbs put out his brawny right arm. "Master," said he, with quite a
solemn emphasis, "as true as that there moon's a-shining down upon us,
I this night saw Nash Caromel. I should know him among a thousand.
And I thought my heart would just ha' leaped out of me."

To hear this strong, matter-of-fact man assert this, with his sturdy
frame and his practical common sense, sounded remarkable. Any one
accustomed to seeing him in his forge, working away at his anvil, would
never have believed it of him. Tod laughed. The Squire marched off to
the stables with an impatient word. I followed with Dobbs.

"The idea of your believing in ghosts and shadows, Dobbs!"

"Me believe in 'em, Master Johnny! No more I did; I'd have scorned it.
Why, do you remember that there stir, sir, about the ghost that was said
to haunt Oxlip Dell? Lots of people went into fits over that, a'most
lost their heads; but I laughed at it. Now, I never put credit in
nothing of the kind; but I have seen Mr. Caromel's ghost to-night."

"Was it in white?"

"Bless your heart, sir, no. He was in a sort o' long-skirted dark cloak
that seemed to wrap him well round; and his head was in something black.
It might ha' been a cap; I don't know. And here we are at the stable, so
I'll say no more: but I can't ever speak anything truer in my life than
I've spoke this, sir."

All this passed. In spite of the blacksmith's superstitious assertion,
made in the impulse of terror, there lay on his mind a feeling of shame
that he should have betrayed fear to us (or what bordered upon it) in an
unguarded moment; and this caused him to be silent to others. So the
matter passed off without spreading further.

Several weeks later, it cropped up again. Francis Radcliffe (if the
reader has not forgotten him, and who had not long before been delivered
out of his brother's hands at Sandstone Torr) was passing along at the
back of Caromel's Farm, when he saw a figure that bore an extraordinary
resemblance to Nash Caromel. The Squire laughed well when told of it,
and Radcliffe laughed too. "But," said he, "had Nash Caromel not been
dead, I could have sworn it was he, or his shadow, before any justice of
the peace."

His shadow! The same word that Dobbs had used. Francis Radcliffe told
this story everywhere, and it caused no little excitement.

"What does this silly rumour mean--about Nash Caromel being seen?"
demanded the Squire one day when he met Nave, and condescended to stop
to speak to him.

And Nave, hearing the question, turned quite blue: the pater told us so
when he came home. Just as though Nave saw the apparition before him
then, and was frightened at it.

"The rumour is infamous," he answered, biting his cold lips to keep down
his passion. "Infamous and ridiculous both. Emanating from idle fools. I
think, sir, as a magistrate, you might order these people before you and
punish them."

"Punish people for thinking they see Caromel's ghost!" retorted the
Squire. "Bless my heart! What an ignorant man (for a lawyer) you must
be! No act has been passed against seeing ghosts. But I'd like to know
what gives rise to the fancy about Caromel."

The rumour did not die away. How could it, when from time to time the
thing continued to be seen? It frightened Mary Standish into a fit.
Going to Caromel's Farm one night to beg grace for something or other
that her ill-doing husband, Jim, then working on the farm, had done or
left undone, she came upon a wonderfully thin man standing in the nook
by the dairy window, and took him to be the bailiff, who was himself
no better than a walking lamp-post. "If you please, sir," she was
beginning, thinking to have it out with him instead of Mrs. Caromel,
"if you please, sir----"

When, upon looking into his pale, stony face, she saw the late master.
He vanished into air or into the wall, and down fell Mary Standish in a
fainting-fit. The parish grew uneasy at all this--and wondered what had
been done to Nash, or what he had done, that he could not rest.

One night I was coming, with Tod, across from Mrs. Scott's, who lived
beyond Hyde Stockhausem's. We took the field way from Church Dykely, as
being the shortest route, and that led us through the copse at the back
of Caromel's Farm. It was a very light night, though not moonlight; and
we walked on at a good rate, talking of a frightful scrape Sam Scott
had got into, and which he was afraid to tell his mother of. All in a
moment, just in the middle of the copse, we came upon a man standing
amongst the trees, his face towards us. Tod turned and I turned; and we
both saw Nash Caromel. Now, of course, you will laugh. As the Squire did
when we got home (in a white heat) and told him: and he called us a
couple of poltroons. But, if ever I saw the face of Nash Caromel, I saw
it then; and if ever I saw a figure that might be called a shadow, it
was his.

"Fine gentlemen, both of you!" scoffed the Squire. "Clear and sensible!
Seen a ghost, have you, and confess to it! Ho, ho! Running through the
back copse, you come upon somebody that you must take for an apparition!
Ha, ha! Nice young cowards! I'd write an account of it to the Worcester
papers if I were you. A ghost, with glaring eyes and a white face!
Death's head upon a mopstick, lads! I shouldn't have wondered at Johnny;
but I do wonder at you, Joe," concluded the Squire, smoothing down.

"I am no more afraid of ghosts than you are, father," quietly answered
Joe. "I was not afraid when we saw--what we did see; I can't answer for
Johnny. But I do declare, with all my senses (which you are pleased to
disparage) about me, that it was the form and face of Nash Caromel, and
that 'it' (whatever it might be) seemed to vanish from our sight as we
looked."

"Johnny calls it a shadow," mocked the Squire, amiably.

"It looked shadowy," said Tod.

"A tree-trunk, I dare be bound, lads, nothing else," nodded the Squire.
And you might as well have tried to make an impression on a post.

IV.

September came in: which made it a year since Nash died. And on one of
its bright days, when the sun was high, and the blue sky cloudless,
Church Dykely had a stir given it in the sight of the mistress of
Caromel's Farm. She and her father were in a gig together, driving off
on the Worcester road: and it was so very rare a thing to see her abroad
now, that folks ran to their windows and doors to stare. Her golden
hair, what could be seen of it for her smart blue parasol, shone in the
sunlight; but her face looked white and thin through the black crape
veil.

"Just like a woman who gets disturbed o' nights," pronounced Sam Rimmer,
thinking of the ghostly presence that was believed to haunt the house.

Before that day's beautiful sun had gone down to light the inhabitants
of the other hemisphere, ill-omened news reached Church Dykely. An
accident had happened to the horse and gig. It was said that both Nave
and his daughter were dreadfully injured; one of them nearly killed.
Miss Gwinny, left at home to take care of Caromel's Farm, posted off to
the scene of damage.

Holding Caromel's Farm in small respect now, the Squire yet chose to
show himself neighbourly; and he rose up from his dinner to go there and
inquire particulars. "You may come with me, lads, if you like," said he.
Tod laughed.

"He's afraid of seeing Caromel," whispered he in my ear, as we took down
our hats.

And, whether the Squire was afraid of it or not, he did see him. It was
a lovely moonlight night, bright and clear as the day had been. Old
Grizzel could not tell us much more of the accident than we had heard
before; except that it was quite true there had been one, and that Miss
Gwinny had gone. And, by the way Grizzel inwardly shook and shivered
while she spoke, and turned her eyes to all corners in some desperate
fear, one might have thought she had been pitched out of a gig herself.

We had left the door--it was the side-entrance--when the Squire turned
back to put some last query to her. Tod and I went on. The path was
narrow, the overhanging trees on either side obscured the moonlight,
making it dark. Chancing to glance round, I noticed the Squire, at the
other end of the path, come soberly after us. Suddenly he seemed to
halt, to look sideways at the trees, and then he came on with a bound.

"Boys! Boys!" cried he, in a half-whisper, "come on. There's Caromel
yonder."

And to see the pater's face in its steaming consternation, and to watch
him rush on to the gate, was better than a play. Seen Caromel! It was
not so long since he had mocked at us for saying it.

Through the gate went he, bolt into the arms of some unexpected figure,
standing there. We peered at it in the uncertain lights cast by the
trees, and made it out to be Dobbs, the blacksmith.

Dobbs, with a big coat on, hiding his shirt-sleeves and his leather
apron: Dobbs standing as silent as the grave: arms folded, head bent:
Dobbs in stockinged feet, without his shoes.

"Dobbs, my good fellow, what on earth do you put yourself in people's
way for, standing stock-still like a Chinese image?" gasped the Squire.
"Dobbs--why, you have no boots on."

"Hush!" breathed Dobbs, hardly above his breath. "I ask your pardon,
Squire. Hush, please! There's something uncanny in this place; some ugly
mystery. I mean to find it out if I can, sirs, and this is the third
night I've come here on the watch. Hark!"

Sounds, as of a woman's voice weeping and wailing, reached us faintly
from somewhere--down beyond the garden trees. The pater looked regularly
flustered.

"Listen!" repeated Dobbs, raising his big hand to entreat for silence.
"Yes, Squire; I don't know what the mystery is; but there is something
wrong about the place, and I can't sleep o' nights for it. Please
hearken, sirs."

The blacksmith was right. Wrong and mystery, such as the world does not
often hear of, lay within Caromel's Farm. Curious mystery; wicked wrong.
Leaning our arms on the gate, watching the moonlight flickering on the
trees, we listened to Dobbs's whispered revelation. It made the Squire's
hair stand on end.
