The Haunted Chair

                                CHAPTER I

"Well, that's the most staggering thing I've ever known!"

As Mr. Philpotts entered the smoking-room, these were the words--with
additions--which fell upon his, not unnaturally, startled ears. Since
Mr. Bloxham was the only person in the room, it seemed only too
probable that the extraordinary language had been uttered by him--and,
indeed, his demeanour went far to confirm the probability. He was
standing in front of his chair, staring about him in a manner which
suggested considerable mental perturbation, apparently unconscious of
the fact that his cigar had dropped either from his lips or his fingers
and was smoking merrily away on the brand-new carpet which the
committee had just laid down. He turned to Mr. Philpotts in a state of
what seemed really curious agitation.

"I say, Philpotts, did you see him?"

Mr. Philpotts looked at him in silence for a moment, before he drily
said, "I heard you."

But Mr. Bloxham was in no mood to be put off in this manner. He seemed,
for some cause, to have lost the air of serene indifference for which
he was famed--he was in a state of excitement, which, for him, was
quite phenomenal.

"No nonsense, Philpotts--did you see him?"

"See whom?" Mr. Philpotts was selecting a paper from a side table. "I
see your cigar is burning a hole in the carpet."

"Confound my cigar!" Mr. Bloxham stamped on it with an angry tread.
"Did Geoff Fleming pass you as you came in?"

Mr. Philpotts looked round with an air of evident surprise.

"Geoff Fleming!--Why, surely he's in Ceylon by now."

"Not a bit of it. A minute ago he was in that chair talking to me."

"Bloxham!" Mr. Philpotts' air of surprise became distinctly more
pronounced, a fact which Mr. Bloxham apparently resented.

"What are you looking at me like that for pray? I tell you I was
glancing through the _Field_, when I felt someone touch me on the
shoulder. I looked round--there was Fleming standing just behind me.
'Geoff.' I cried, 'I thought you were on the other side of the
world--what are you doing here?' 'I've come to have a peep at you,' he
said. He drew a chair up close to mine--this chair--and sat in it. I
turned round to reach for a match on the table, it scarcely took me a
second, but when I looked his way again hanged if he weren't gone."

Mr. Philpotts continued his selection of a paper--in a manner which was
rather marked.

"Which way did he go?"

"Didn't you meet him as you came in?"

"I did not--I met no one. What's the matter now?"

The question was inspired by the fact that a fresh volley of expletives
came from Mr. Bloxham's lips. That gentleman was standing with his
hands thrust deep into his trouser pockets, his legs wide open, and his
eyes and mouth almost as wide open as his legs.

"Hang me," he exclaimed, when, as it appeared, he had temporarily come
to the end of his stock of adjectives, "if I don't believe he's boned
my purse."

"Boned your purse!" Mr. Philpotts laid a not altogether flattering
emphasis upon the "boned!" "Bloxham! What do you mean?"

Mr. Bloxham did not immediately explain. He dropped into the chair
behind him. His hands were still in his trouser pockets, his legs were
stretched out in front of him, and on his face there was not only an
expression of amazement, but also of the most unequivocal bewilderment.
He was staring at the vacant air as if he were trying his hardest to
read some riddle.

"This is a queer start, upon my word, Philpotts," he spoke in what, for
him, were tones of unwonted earnestness. "When I was reaching for the
matches  on the table, what made me turn round so suddenly was because
I thought I felt someone tugging at my purse--it was in the pocket next
to Fleming. As I told you, when I did turn round Fleming was gone--and,
by Jove, it looks as though my purse went with him."

"Have you lost your purse?--is that what you mean?"

"I'll swear that it was in my pocket five minutes ago, and that it's
not there now; that's what I mean."

Mr. Philpotts looked at Mr. Bloxham as if, although he was too polite
to say so, he could not make him out at all. He resumed his selection
of a paper.

"One is liable to make mistakes about one's purse; perhaps you'll find
it when you get home."

Mr. Bloxham sat in silence for some moments. Then, rising, he shook
himself as a dog does when he quits the water.

"I say, Philpotts, don't ladle out this yarn of mine to the other
fellows, there's a good chap. As you say, one is apt to get into a
muddle about one's purse, and I dare say I shall come across it when I
get home. And perhaps I'm not very well this afternoon; I am feeling
out of sorts, and that's a fact. I think I'll just toddle home and take
a seidlitz, or a pill, or something. Ta ta!"

When Mr. Philpotts was left alone he smiled to himself, that superior
smile which we are apt to smile when conscious that a man has been
making a conspicuous ass of himself on lines which may be his, but
which, we thank Providence, are emphatically not ours. With not one,
but half a dozen papers in his hand, he seated himself in the chair
which Mr. Bloxham had recently relinquished. Retaining a single paper,
he placed the rest on the small round table on his left--the table on
which wore the matches for which Mr. Bloxham declared he had reached.
Taking out his case, he selected a cigar almost with the same care
which he had shewn in selecting his literature, smiling to himself all
the time that superior smile. Lighting the cigar he had chosen with a
match from the table, he settled himself at his ease to read.

Scarcely had he done so than he was conscious of a hand laid gently on
his shoulder from behind.

"What! back again?"

"Hullo, Phil!"

He had taken it for granted, without troubling to look round, that Mr.
Bloxham had returned, and that it was he who touched him on the
shoulder. But the voice which replied to him, so far from being Mr.
Bloxham's was one the mere sound of which caused him not only to lose
his bearing of indifference but to spring from his seat with the
agility almost of a jack-in-the-box. When he saw who it was had touched
him on the shoulder, he stared.

"Fleming! Then Bloxham was right, after all. May I ask what brings you
here?"

The man at whom he was looking was tall and well-built, in age about
five and thirty. There were black cavities beneath his eyes; the man's
whole face was redolent, to a trained perception, of something which
was, at least, slightly unsavoury. He was dressed from head to foot in
white duck--a somewhat singular costume for Pall Mall, even on a summer
afternoon.

Before Mr. Philpotts' gaze, his own eyes sank. Murmuring something
which was almost inaudible, he moved to the chair next to the one which
Mr. Philpotts had been occupying, the chair of which Mr. Bloxham had
spoken.

As he seated himself, Mr. Philpotts eyed him in a fashion which was
certainly not too friendly.

"What did you mean by disappearing just now in that extraordinary
manner, frightening Bloxham half out of his wits? Where did you get
to?"

The new comer was stroking his heavy moustache with a hand which, for a
man of his size and build, was unusually small and white. He spoke in a
lazy, almost inaudible, drawl.

"I just popped outside."

"Just popped outside! I must have been coming in just when you went
out. I saw nothing of you; you've put Bloxham into a pretty state of
mind."

Re-seating himself, Mr. Philpotts turned to put the paper he was
holding on to the little table. "I don't want to make myself a brute,
but it strikes me that your presence here at all requires explanation.
When several fellows club together to give another fellow a fresh start
on the other side of the world----"

Mr. Philpotts stopped short. Having settled the paper on the table to
his perfect satisfaction, he turned round again towards the man he was
addressing--and as he did so he ceased to address him, and that for the
sufficiently simple reason that he was not there to address--the man
had gone! The chair at Mr. Philpotts' side was empty; without a sign or
a sound its occupant had vanished, it would almost seem, into space.

                               CHAPTER II

Under the really remarkable circumstances of the case, Mr. Philpotts
preserved his composure to a singular degree. He looked round the room;
there was no one there. He again fixedly regarded the chair at his
side; there could be no doubt that it was empty. To make quite sure, he
passed his hand two or three times over the seat; it met with not the
slightest opposition. Where could the man have got to? Mr. Philpotts
had not, consciously, heard the slightest sound; there had not been
time for him to have reached the door. Mr. Philpotts knocked the ash
off his cigar. He stood up. He paced leisurely two or three times up
and down the room.

"If Bloxham is ill, I am not. I was never better in my life. And the
man who tells me that I have been the victim of an optical delusion is
talking of what he knows nothing. I am prepared to swear that it was
Geoffrey Fleming who touched me on the shoulder; that he spoke to me;
and that he seated himself upon that chair. Where he came from, or
where he has gone to, are other questions entirely." He critically
examined his finger nails.

"If those Psychical Research people have an address in town, I think
I'll have a talk with them. I suppose it's three or four minutes since
the man vanished. What's the time now? Whatever has become of my
watch?"

He might well ask--it had gone, both watch and chain--vanished, with
Mr. Fleming, into air. Mr. Philpotts stared at his waistcoat, too
astonished for speech. Then he gave a little gasp.

"This comes of playing Didymus! The brute has stolen it! I must
apologise to Bloxham. As he himself said, this is a queer start, upon
my honour! Now, if you like, I do feel a little out of sorts; this sort
of thing is enough to make one. Before I go, I think I'll have a drop
of brandy."

As he was hesitating, the smoking-room door opened to admit Frank
Osborne. Mr. Osborne nodded to Mr. Philpotts as he crossed the room.

"You're not looking quite yourself, Philpotts."

Mr. Philpotts seemed to regard the observation almost in the light of
an impertinence.

"Am I not? I was not aware that there was anything in my appearance to
call for remark." Smiling, Mr. Osborne seated himself in the chair
which the other had not long ago vacated. Mr. Philpotts regarded him
attentively. "You're not looking quite yourself, either."

The smile vanished from Mr. Osborne's face.

"I'm not feeling myself!--I'm not! I'm worried about Geoff Fleming."

Mr. Philpotts slightly started.

"About Geoff Fleming?--what about Fleming?'

"I'm afraid--well, Phil, the truth is that I'm afraid that Geoff's a
hopeless case."

Mr. Philpotts was once more busying himself with the papers which were
on the side table.

"What do you mean?"

"As you know, he and I have been very thick in our time, and when he
came a cropper it was I who suggested that we who were at school with
him might have a whip round among ourselves to get the old chap a fresh
start elsewhere. You all of you behaved like bricks, and when I told
him what you had done, poor Geoff was quite knocked over. He promised
voluntarily that he would never touch a card again, or make another
bet, until he had paid you fellows off with thumping interest. Well, he
doesn't seem to have kept his promise long."

"How do you know he hasn't?"

"I've heard from Deecie."

"From Deecie?--where's Fleming?"

"In Ceylon--they'd both got there before Deecie's letter left."

"In Ceylon!" exclaimed Mr. Philpotts excitedly, staring hard at Mr.
Osborne. "You are sure he isn't back in town?"

In his turn, Mr. Osborne was staring at Mr. Philpotts.

"Not unless he came back by the same boat which brought Deecie's
letter. What made you ask?"

"I only wondered."

Mr. Philpotts turned again to the paper. The other went on.

"It seems that a lot of Australian sporting men were on the boat on
which they went out. Fleming got in with them. They played--he played
too. Deecie remonstrated--but he says that it only seemed to make bad
worse. At first Geoff won--you know the usual sort of thing; he wound
up by losing all he had, and about four hundred pounds beside. He had
the cheek to ask Deecie for the money." Mr. Osborne paused. Mr.
Philpotts uttered a sound which might have been indicative of
contempt--or anything. "Deecie says that when the winners found out
that he couldn't pay, there was a regular row. Geoff swore, in that
wild way of his, that if he couldn't pay them before he died, he would
rise from the dead to get the money."

Mr. Philpotts looked round with a show of added interest.

"What was that he said?"

"Oh, it was only his wild way of speaking--you know that way of his. If
they don't get their money before he dies, and I fancy that it's rather
more than even betting that they won't, I don't think that there's much
chance of his rising from his grave to get it for them. He'll break
that promise, as he has broken so many more. Poor Geoff! It seems that
we might as well have kept our money in our pockets; it doesn't seem to
have done him much good. His prospects don't look very rosy--without
money, and with a bad name to start with."

"As I fancy you have more than once suspected, Frank, I never have had
a high opinion of Mr. Geoffrey Fleming. I am not in the least surprised
at what you tell me, any more than I was surprised when he came his
cropper. I have always felt that, at a pinch, he would do anything to
save his own skin." Mr. Osborne said nothing, but he shook his head.
"Did you see anything of Bloxham when you came in?"

"I saw him going along the street in a cab."

"I want to speak to him! I think I'll just go and see if I can find him
in his rooms."

                              CHAPTER III

Mr. Frank Osborne scarcely seemed to be enjoying his own society when
Mr. Philpotts had left him. As all the world knows, he is a man of
sentiment--of the true sort, not the false. He has had one great
passion in his life--Geoffrey Fleming. They began when they were at
Chilchester together, when he was big, and Fleming still little. He did
his work for him, fought for him, took his scrapes upon himself,
believed in him, almost worshipped him. The thing continued when
Fleming joined him at the University. Perhaps the fact that they both
were orphans had something to do with it; neither of them had kith nor
kin. The odd part of the business was that Osborne was not only a
clear-sighted, he was a hard-headed man. It could not have been long
before it dawned upon him that the man with whom he fraternised was a
naturally bad egg. Fleming was continually coming to grief; he would
have come to eternal grief at the very commencement of his career if it
had not been for Osborne at his back. He went through his own money; he
went through as much of his friend's as his friend would let him. Then
came the final smash. There were features about the thing which made it
clear, even to Frank Osborne, that in England, at least, for some years
to come, Geoffrey Fleming had run his course right out. He strained all
his already strained resources in his efforts to extricate the man from
the mire. When he found that he himself was insufficient, going to
his old schoolfellows, he begged them, for his sake--if not for
Fleming's--to join hands with him in giving the scapegrace still
another start. As a result, interest was made for him in a Ceylon
plantation, and Mr. Fleming with, under the circumstances, well-lined
pockets, was despatched over the seas to turn over a new leaf in a
sunnier clime.

How he had vowed that he would turn over a new leaf, actually with
tears upon his knees! And this was how he had done it; before he had
reached his journey's end, he had gambled away the money which was not
his, and was in debt besides. Frank Osborne must have been fashioned
something like the dog which loves its master the more, the more he
ill-treats it. His heart went out in pity to the scamp across the seas.
He had no delusions; he had long been conscious that the man was
hopeless. And yet he knew very well that if he could have had his
way he would have gone at once to comfort him. Poor Geoff! What an
all-round mess he seemed to have made of things--and he had had the ball
at his feet when he started--poor, dear old Geoff! With his knuckles Mr.
Osborne wiped a suspicious moisture from his eyes. Geoff was all
right--if he had only been able to prevent money from slipping from
between his fingers, had been gifted with a sense of _meum et tuum_--not
a nicer fellow in the world!

Mr. Osborne sat trying to persuade himself into the belief that the man
was an injured paragon though he knew very well that he was an
irredeemable scamp. He endeavoured to see only his good qualities,
which was a task of exceeding difficulty--they were hidden in such a
cloud of blackness. At least, whatever might be said against Geoff--and
Mr. Osborne admitted to himself that there might be something--it was
certain that Geoff loved him almost as much as he loved Geoff. Mr.
Osborne declared to himself--putting pressure on himself to prevent
his making a single mental reservation--that Geoff Fleming, in spite
of all his faults, was the only person in the wide, wide world who
did love him. And he was a stranger in a strange land, and in trouble
again--poor dear old Geoff! Once more Mr. Osborne's knuckles went up to
wipe that suspicious moisture from his eyes.

While he was engaged in doing this, a hand was laid gently on his
shoulder from behind. It was, perhaps, because he was unwilling to be
detected in such an act that, at the touch, he rose from his seat with
a start--which became so to speak, a start of petrified amazement when
he perceived who it was who had touched him. It was the man of whom he
had been thinking, the friend of his boyhood--Geoffrey Fleming.

"Geoff!" he gasped. "Dear old Geoff!" He paused, seemingly in doubt
whether to laugh or cry. "I thought you were in Ceylon!"

Mr. Fleming did exactly what he had done when he came so unexpectedly
on Mr. Philpotts--he moved to the chair at Mr. Osborne's side. His
manner was in contrast to his friend's--it was emphatically not
emotional.

"I've just dropped in," he drawled.

"My dear old boy!" Mr. Osborne, as he surveyed his friend, seemed to
become more and more torn by conflicting emotions. "Of course I'm very
glad to see you Geoff, but how did you get in here? I thought that they
had taken your name off the books of the club." He was perfectly aware
that Mr. Fleming's name had been taken off the books of the club, and
in a manner the reverse of complimentary. Mr. Fleming offered no
remark. He sat looking down at the carpet stroking his moustache. Mr.
Osborne went stammeringly on--

"As I say, Geoff--and as, of course you know,--I am very glad to see
you, anywhere; but--we don't want any unpleasantness, do we? If some of
the fellows came in and found you here, they might make themselves
nasty. Come round to my rooms; we shall be a lot more comfortable
there, old man."

Mr. Fleming raised his eyes. He looked his friend full in the face. As
he met his glance, Mr. Osborne was conscious of a curious sort of
shiver. It was not only because the man's glance was, to say the least,
less friendly than it might have been--it was because of something
else, something which Mr. Osborne could scarcely have defined.

"I want some money."

Mr. Osborne smiled, rather fatuously.

"Ah, Geoff, the same old tale! Deecie has told me all about it. I won't
reproach you; you know, if I had some, you should have it; but I'm not
sure that it isn't just as well for both ourselves that I haven't,
Geoff."

"You have some money in your pocket now."

Mr. Osborne's amazement grew apace--his friend's manner was so very
strange.

"What a nose you always have for money; however did you find that out?
But it isn't mine. You know Jim Baker left me guardian to that boy of
his, and I've been drawing the youngster's dividends--it's only seventy
pounds, Geoff."

Mr. Fleming stretched out his hand--his reply was brief and to the
point.

"Give it to me!"

"Give it to you!--Geoff!--young Baker's money!"

Mr. Fleming reiterated his demand.

"Give it to me!"

His manner was not only distinctly threatening, it had a peculiar
effect upon his friend. Although Mr. Osborne had never before shewn
fear of any living man, and had, in that respect, proved his
superiority over Fleming many a time, there was something at that
moment in the speaker's voice, or words, or bearing, or in all three
together, which set him shivering, as if with fear, from head to foot.

"Geoff!--you are mad! I'll see what I can find for you, but I can't
give you young Baker's dividends."

Mr. Osborne was not quite clear as to exactly what it was that
happened. He only knew that the friend of his boyhood--the man for whom
he had done so much--the only person in the world who loved him--rose
and took him by the throat, and, forcing him backwards, began to rifle
the pocket which contained the seventy pounds. He was so taken by
surprise, so overwhelmed by a feeling of utter horror, against which he
was unable even to struggle, that it was only when he felt the money
being actually withdrawn from his pocket that he made an attempt at
self-defence. Then, when he made a frantic clutch at his assailant's
felonious arm, all he succeeded in grasping was the empty air. The
pressure was removed from his throat. He was able to look about him.
Mr. Fleming was gone. He thrust a trembling hand into his pocket--the
seventy pounds had vanished too.

"Geoff! Geoff!" he cried, the tears streaming from his eyes. "Don't
play tricks with me! Give me back young Baker's dividends!"

When no one answered and there seemed no one to hear, he began to
searching round and round the room with his eyes, as if he suspected
Mr. Fleming of concealing himself behind some article of furniture.

"Geoff! Geoff!" he continued crying. "Dear old boy!--give me back young
Baker's dividends!"

"Hullo!" exclaimed a voice--which certainly was not Mr. Fleming's. Mr.
Osborne turned. Colonel Lanyon was standing with the handle of the open
door in his hand. "Frank, are you rehearsing for a five-act tragedy?"

Mr. Osborne replied to the Colonel's question with another.

"Lanyon, did Geoffrey Fleming pass you as you came in?"

"Geoffrey Fleming!" The Colonel wheeled round on his heels like a
teetotum. He glanced behind him. "What the deuce do you mean, Frank? If
I catch that thief under the roof which covers me, I'll make a case for
the police of him."

Then Mr. Osborne remembered what, in his agitation, he had momentarily
forgotten, that Geoffrey Fleming had had no bitterer, more out-spoken,
and, it may be added, more well-merited an opponent than Colonel Lanyon
in the Climax Club. The Colonel advanced towards Mr. Osborne.

"Do you know that that's the blackguard's chair you're standing by?"

"His chair!"

Mr. Osborne was leaning with one hand on the chair on which Mr. Fleming
had, not long ago, been sitting.

"That's what he used to call it himself,--with his usual impudence. He
used to sit in it whenever he took a hand. The men would give it up to
him--you know how you gave everything up to him, all the lot of you. If
he couldn't get it he'd turn nasty--wouldn't play. It seems that he had
the cheek to cut his initials on the chair--I only heard of it the
other day, or there'd have been a clearance of him long ago. Look
here--what do you think of that for a piece of rowdiness?"

The Colonel turned the chair upside down. Sure enough in the woodwork
underneath the seat were the letters, cut in good-sized characters--"G.
F."

"You know that rubbishing way in which he used to talk. When men
questioned his exclusive right to the chair, I've heard him say he'd
prove his right by coming and sitting in it after he was dead and
buried--he swore he'd haunt the chair. Idiot!--What is the matter with
you Frank? You look as if you'd been in a rough and tumble--your
necktie's all anyhow."

"I think I must have dropped asleep, and dreamed--yes, I fancy I've
been dreaming."

Mr. Osborne staggered, rather than walked, to the door, keeping one
hand in the inside pocket of his coat. The Colonel followed him with
his eyes.

"Frank's ageing fast," was his mental comment as Mr. Osborne
disappeared. "He'll be an old man yet before I am."

He seated himself in Geoffrey Fleming's chair.

It was, perhaps, ten minutes afterwards that Edward Jackson went into
the smoking room--"Scientific" Jackson, as they call him, because of
the sort of catch phrase he is always using--"Give me science!" He had
scarcely been in the room a minute before he came rushing to the door
shouting--

"Help, help!"

Men came hurrying from all parts of the building. Mr. Griffin came from
the billiard-room, where he is always to be found. He had a cue in one
hand, and a piece of chalk in the other. He was the first to address
the vociferous gentleman standing at the smoking-room door.

"Jackson!--What's the matter?"

Mr. Jackson was in such a condition of fluster and excitement that it
was a little difficult to make out, from his own statement, what was
the matter.

"Lanyon's dead! Have any of you seen Geoff Fleming? Stop him if you
do--he's stolen my pocket-book!" He began mopping his brow with his
bandanna handkerchief, "God bless my soul! an awful thing!--I've been
robbed--and old Lanyon's dead!"

One thing was quickly made clear--as they saw for themselves when they
went crowding into the smoking-room--Lanyon was dead. He was kneeling
in front of Geoffrey Fleming's chair, clutching at either side of it
with a tenacity which suggested some sort of convulsion. His head was
thrown back, his eyes were still staring wide open, his face was
distorted by a something which was half fear, half horror--as if, as
those who saw him afterwards agreed, he had seen sudden, certain death
approaching him, in a form which even he, a seasoned soldier, had found
too horrible for contemplation.

Mr. Jackson's story, in one sense, was plain enough, though it was odd
enough in another. He told it to an audience which evinced unmistakable
interest in every word uttered.

"I often come in for a smoke about this time, because generally the
place is empty, so that you get it all to yourself."

He cast a somewhat aggressive look upon his hearers--a look which could
hardly be said to convey a flattering suggestion.

"When I first came in I thought that the room was empty. It was only
when I was half-way across that something caused me to look round. I
saw that someone was kneeling on the floor. I looked to see who it was.
It was Lanyon. 'Lanyon!' I cried. 'Whatever are you doing there?' He
didn't answer. Wondering what was up with him and why he didn't speak,
I went closer to where he was. When I got there I didn't like the look
of him at all. I thought he was in some sort of a fit. I was hesitating
whether to pick him up, or at once to summon assistance, when--"

Mr. Jackson paused. He looked about him with an obvious shiver.

"By George! when I think of it now, it makes me go quite creepy.
Cathcart, would you mind ringing for another drop of brandy?"

The brandy was rung for. Mr. Jackson went on.

"All of a sudden, as I was stooping over Lanyon, someone touched me on
the shoulder. You know, there hadn't been a sound--I hadn't heard the
door open, not a thing which could suggest that anyone was approaching.
Finding Lanyon like that had make me go quite queer, and when I felt
that touch on my shoulder it so startled me that I fairly screeched. I
jumped up to see who it was, And when I saw"--Mr. Jackson's bandanna
came into play--"who it was, I thought my eyes would have started out
of my head. It was Geoff Fleming."

"Who?" came in chorus from his auditors.

"It was Geoffrey Fleming. 'Good God!--Fleming!' I cried. 'Where did you
come from? I never heard you. Anyhow, you're just in the nick of time.
Lanyon's come to grief--lend me a hand with him.' I bent down, to take
hold of one side of poor old Lanyon, meaning Fleming to take hold of
the other. Before I had a chance of touching Lanyon, Fleming, catching
me by the shoulder, whirled me round--I had had no idea the fellow was
so strong, he gripped me like a vice. I was just going to ask what the
dickens he meant by handling me like that, when, before I could say
Jack Robinson, or even had time to get my mouth open, Fleming, darting
his hand into my coat pocket, snatched my pocket-book clean out of it."

He stopped, apparently to gasp for breath. "And, pray, what were you
doing while Mr. Fleming behaved in this exceedingly peculiar way--even
for Mr. Fleming?" inquired Mr. Cathcart.

"Doing!" Mr. Jackson was indignant. "Don't I tell you I was doing
nothing? There was no time to do anything--it all happened in a flash.
I had just come from my bankers--there were a hundred and thirty pounds
in that pocket-book. When I realised that the fellow had taken it, I
made a grab at him. And"--again Mr. Jackson looked furtively about him,
and once more the bandanna came into active play--"directly I did so, I
don't know where he went to, but it seemed to me that he vanished into
air--he was gone, like a flash of lightning. I told myself I was
mad--stark mad! but when I felt for my pocketbook, and found that that
was also gone, I ran yelling to the door."

                               CHAPTER IV

It was, as the old-time novelists used to phrase it, about three weeks
after the events transpired which we have recorded in the previous
chapter. Evening--after dinner. There was a goodly company assembled in
the smoking room at the Climax Club. Conversation was general. They
were talking of some of the curious circumstances which had attended
the death of Colonel Lanyon. The medical evidence at the inquest had
gone to shew that the Colonel had died of one of the numerous, and,
indeed, almost innumerable, varieties of heart disease. The finding had
been in accordance with the medical evidence. It seemed to be felt, by
some of the speakers, that such a finding scarcely met the case.

"It's all very well," observed Mr. Cathcart, who seemed disposed to
side with the coroner's jury, "for you fellows to talk, but in such a
case, you must bring in some sort of verdict--and what other verdict
could they bring? There was not a trace of any mark of violence to be
found upon the man.

"It's my belief that he saw Fleming, and that Fleming frightened him to
death."

It was Mr. Jackson who said this. Mr. Cathcart smiled a rather
provoking smile.

"So far as I observed, you did not drop any hint of your belief when
you were before the coroner."

"No, because I didn't want to be treated as a laughing-stock by a lot
of idiots."

"Quite so; I can understand your natural objection to that, but still I
don't see your line of argument. I should not have cared to question
Lanyon's courage to Lanyon's face while he was living. Why should you
suppose that such a man as Geoffrey Fleming was capable of such a thing
as, as you put it, actually frightening him to death? I should say it
was rather the other way about. I have seen Fleming turn green, with
what looked very much like funk, at the sight of Lanyon."

Mr. Jackson for some moments smoked in silence.

"If you had seen Geoffrey Fleming under the circumstances in which I
did, you would understand better what it is I mean."

"But, my dear Jackson, if you will forgive my saying so, it seems to me
that you don't shew to great advantage in your own story. Have you
communicated the fact of your having been robbed to the police?"

"I have."

"And have you furnished them with the numbers of the notes which were
taken?"

"I have."

"Then, in that case, I shouldn't be surprised if Mr. Fleming were
brought to book any hour of any day. You'll find he has been lying
close in London all the time--he soon had enough of Ceylon."

A new comer joined the group of talkers--Frank Osborne. They noticed,
as he seated himself, how much he seemed to have aged of late and how
particularly shabby he seemed just then. The first remark which he made
took them all aback.

"Geoff Fleming's dead."

"Dead!" cried Mr. Philpotts, who was sitting next to Mr. Osborne.

"Yes--dead. I've heard from Deecie. He died three weeks ago."

"Three weeks ago!"

"On the day on which Lanyon died."

Mr. Cathcart turned to Mr. Jackson, with a smile.

"Then that knocks on the head your theory about his having frightened
Lanyon to death; and how about your interview with him--eh Jackson?"

Mr. Jackson did not answer. He suddenly went white. An intervention
came from an unexpected quarter--from Mr. Philpotts.

"It seems to me that you are rather taking things for granted,
Cathcart. I take leave to inform you that I saw Geoffrey Fleming,
perhaps less than half-an-hour before Jackson did."

Mr. Cathcart stared.

"You saw him!--Philpotts!"

Then Mr. Bloxham arose and spoke.

"Yes, and I saw him, too--didn't I, Philpott's?"

Any tendency on the part of the auditors to smile was checked by the
tone of exceeding bitterness in which Frank Osborne was also moved to
testify.

"And I--I saw him, too!--Geoff!--dear old boy!"

"Deecie says that there were two strange things about Geoff's death. He
was struck by a fit of apoplexy. He was dead within the hour. Soon
after he died, the servant came running to say that the bed was empty
on which the body had been lying. Deecie went to see. He says that,
when he got into the room, Geoff was back again upon the bed, but it
was plain enough that he had moved. His clothes and hair were in
disorder, his fists were clenched, and there was a look upon his face
which had not been there at the moment of his death, and which, Deecie
says, seemed a look partly of rage and partly of triumph.

"I have been calculating the difference between Cingalese and Greenwich
time. It must have been between three and four o'clock when the servant
went running to say that Geoff's body was not upon the bed--it was
about that time that Lanyon died."

He paused--and then continued--

"The other strange thing that happened was this. Deecie says that the
day after Geoff died a telegram came for him, which, of course, he
opened. It was an Australian wire, and purported to come from the
Melbourne sporting man of whom I told you." He turned to Mr. Philpotts.
"It ran, 'Remittance to hand. It comes in rather a miscellaneous form.
Thanks all the same.' Deecie can only suppose that Geoff had managed,
in some way, to procure the four hundred pounds which he had lost and
couldn't pay, and had also managed, in some way, to send it on to
Melbourne."

There was silence when Frank Osborne ceased to speak--silence which was
broken in a somewhat startling fashion.

"Who's that touched me?" suddenly exclaimed Mr. Cathcart, springing
from his seat.

They stared.

"Touched you!" said someone. "No one's within half a mile of you.
You're dreaming, my dear fellow."

Considering the provocation was so slight, Mr. Cathcart seemed
strangely moved.

"Don't tell me that I'm dreaming--someone touched me on the
shoulder!--What's that?"

"That" was the sound of laughter proceeding from the, apparently,
vacant seat. As if inspired by a common impulse, the listeners
simultaneously moved back.

"That's Fleming's chair," said Mr. Philpotts, beneath his breath.

                                 Nelly

                               CHAPTER I

"Why!" Mr. Gibbs paused. He gave a little gasp. He bent still closer.
Then the words came with a rush: "It's Nelly!"

He glanced at the catalogue. "No. 259--'Stitch! Stitch!
Stitch!'--Philip Bodenham." It was a small canvas, representing the
interior of an ill-furnished apartment in which a woman sat, on a
rickety chair, at a rickety table, sewing. The picture was an
illustration of "The Song of the Shirt."

Mr. Gibbs gazed at the woman's face depicted on the canvas, with gaping
eyes.

"It's Nelly!" he repeated. There was a catch in his voice. "Nelly!"

He tore himself away as if he were loth to leave the woman who sat
there sewing. He went to the price list which the Academicians keep in
the lobby. He turned the leaves. The picture was unsold. The artist had
appraised it at a modest figure. Mr. Gibbs bought it there and then.
Then he turned to his catalogue to discover the artist's address. Mr.
Bodenham lived in Manresa Road, Chelsea.

Not many minutes after a cab drove up to the Manresa Studios. Mr. Gibbs
knocked at a door on the panels of which was inscribed Mr. Bodenham's
name.

"Come in!" cried a voice.

Mr. Gibbs entered. An artist stood at his easel.

"Mr. Bodenham?"

"I am Mr. Bodenham."

"I am Mr. Gibbs. I have just purchased your picture at the Academy,
'Stitch! Stitch! Stitch!'" Mr. Bodenham bowed. "I--I wish to make a--a
few inquiries about--about the picture."

Mr. Gibbs was as nervous as a schoolboy. He stammered and he blushed.
The artist seemed to be amused. He smiled.

"You wish to make a few inquiries about the picture--yes?"

"About the--about the subject of the picture. That is, about--about the
model."

Mr. Gibbs became a peony red. The artist's smile grew more pronounced.

"About the model?"

"Yes, about the model. Where does she live?"

Although the day was comparatively cool, Mr. Gibbs was so hot that it
became necessary for him to take out his handkerchief to wipe his brow.
Mr. Bodenham was a sunny-faced young man. He looked at his visitor with
laughter in his eyes.

"You are aware, Mr. Gibbs, that yours is rather an unusual question. I
have not the pleasure of your acquaintance, and we artists are not in
the habit of giving information about our models to perfect strangers.
It would not do. Moreover, how do you know that I painted from a model?
The faces in pictures are sometimes creations of the artist's
imagination. Perhaps oftener than the public think."

"I know the model in 'Stitch! Stitch! Stitch!'"

"You know her? Then why do you come to me for information?"

"I should have said that I knew her years ago."

Mr. Gibbs looked round the room a little doubtfully. Then he laid his
hand on the back of a chair, as if for the support, moral and physical,
which it afforded him. He looked at the artist with his big, grave
eyes.

"As I say, Mr. Bodenham, I knew her years ago--and I loved her."

There was a catch in his voice. The artist seemed to be growing more
and more amused. Mr. Gibbs went on:

"I was a younger man then. She was but a girl. We both of us were poor.
We loved each other dearly. We agreed that I should go abroad and make
my fortune. When I had made it, I was to come back to her."

The big man paused. His listener was surprised to find how much his
visitor's curious earnestness impressed him. "I had hard times of it at
first. Now and then I heard from her. At last her letters ceased. About
the time her letters ceased, my prospects bettered. Now I'm doing
pretty well. So I've come to take her back with me to the other side.
Mr. Bodenham, I've looked for her everywhere. As they say, high and
low. I've been to her old home, and to mine--I've been just everywhere.
But no one seems to know anything about her. She has just clean gone,
vanished out of sight. I was thinking that I should have to go back,
after all, without her, when I saw your picture in the Academy, and I
knew the girl you had painted was Nelly. So I bought your picture--her
picture. And now I want you to tell me where she lives."

There was a momentary silence when the big man finished.

"Yours is a very romantic story, Mr. Gibbs. Since you have done me the
honour to make of me your confidant, I shall have pleasure in giving
you the address of the original of my little picture--the address, that
is, at which I last heard of her. I have reason to believe that her
address is not infrequently changed. When I last heard of her, she
was--what shall I say?--hard up."

"Hard up, was she? Was she very hard up, Mr. Bodenham?"

"I'm afraid, Mr. Gibbs, that she was as hard up as she could be--and
live."

Mr. Gibbs cleared his throat:

"Thank you. Will you give me her address, Mr. Bodenham?"

Mr. Bodenham wrote something on a slip of paper.

"There it is. It is a street behind Chelsea Hospital--about as
unsavoury a neighbourhood as you will easily find."

Mr. Gibbs found that the artist's words were justified by facts--it was
an unsavoury neighbourhood into which the cabman found his way. No. 20
was the number which Mr. Bodenham had given him. The door of No. 20
stood wide open. Mr. Gibbs knocked with his stick. A dirty woman
appeared from a room on the left.

"Does Miss Brock live here?"

"Never heard tell of no such name. Unless it's the young woman what
lives at the top of the 'ouse--third floor back. Perhaps it's her
you want. Is it a model that you're after? Because, that's what she
is--leastways I've heard 'em saying so. Top o' the stairs, first door
to your left."

Mr. Gibbs started to ascend.

"Take care of them stairs," cried the woman after him. "They wants
knowing."

Mr. Gibbs found that what the woman said was true--they did want
knowing. Better light, too would have been an assistant to a better
knowledge. He had to strike a match to enable him to ascertain if he
had reached the top. A squalid top it was--it smelt! By the light of
the flickering match he perceived that there was a door upon his left.
He knocked. A voice cried to him, for the second time that day:

"Come in!"

But this voice was a woman's. At the sound of it, the heart in the
man's great chest beat, in a sledge-hammer fashion, against his ribs.
His hand trembled as he turned the handle, and when he had opened the
door, and stood within the room, his heart, which had been beating so
tumultuously a moment before, stood still.

The room, which was nothing but a bare attic with raftered ceiling, was
imperfectly lighted by a small skylight--a skylight which seemed as
though it had not been cleaned for ages, so obscured was the glass by
the accumulations of the years. By the light of this skylight Mr. Gibbs
could see that a woman was standing in the centre of the room.

"Nelly!" he cried.

The woman shrank back with, as it were, a gesture of repulsion. Mr.
Gibbs moved forward. "Nelly! Don't you know me? I am Tom."

"Tom?"

The woman's voice was but an echo.

"Tom! Yes, my own, own darling, I am Tom."

Mr. Gibbs advanced. He held out his arms. He was just in time to catch
the woman, or she would have fallen to the floor.

                               CHAPTER II

"Nelly, don't you know me?" The woman was coming to.

"Haven't you a light?" The woman faintly shook her head.

"See, I have your portrait where you placed it; it has never left me
all the time. But when I saw your picture I did not need your portrait
to tell me it was you."

"When you saw my picture?"

"Your portrait in Mr. Bodenham's picture at Academy 'Stitch! Stitch!
Stitch!'"

"Mr. Bodenham's--I see."

The woman's tone was curiously cold.

"Nelly, you don't seem to be very glad to see me."

"Have you got any money?"

"Any money, Nelly?"

"I am hungry."

"Hungry!"

The woman's words seemed to come to him with the force of revelation.

"Hungry!" She turned her head away. "Oh, my God, Nelly." His voice
trembled. "Wa-wait here, I--I sha'n't be a moment. I've a cab at the
door."

He was back almost as soon as he went. He brought with him half the
contents of a shop--among other things, a packet of candles. These he
lighted, standing them, on their own ends, here and there about the
room. The woman ate shyly, as if, in spite of her confession of hunger,
she had little taste for food. She was fingering the faded photograph
of a girl which Mr. Gibbs had taken from his pocket-book.

"Is this my portrait?"

"Nelly! Don't you remember it?"

"How long is it since it was taken?"

"Why, it's more than seven years, isn't it?"

"Do you think I've altered much?"

Mr. Gibbs went to her. He studied her by the light of the candles.

"Well, you might be plumper, and you might look happier, perhaps, but
all that we'll quickly alter. For the rest, thank God, you're my old
Nelly." He took her in his arms. As he did so she drew a long, deep
breath. Holding her at arms-length, he studied her again. "Nelly, I'm
afraid you haven't been having the best of times."

She broke from him with sudden passion.

"Don't speak of it! Don't speak of it! The life I've lived----" She
paused. All at once her voice became curiously hard. "But through it
all I've been good. I swear it. No one knows what the temptation is, to
a woman who has lived the life I have, to go wrong. But I never went.
Tom"--she laid her hand upon Mr. Gibb's arm as, with marked
awkwardness, his name issued from her lips--"say that you believe that
I've been good."

His only answer was to take her in his arms again, and to kiss her.

Mr. Gibbs provided his new-found lost love with money. With that money
she renewed her wardrobe. He found her other lodgings in a more savoury
neighbourhood at Putney. In those lodgings he once more courted her.

He told himself during those courtship days, that, after all, the years
had changed her. She was a little hard. He did not remember the Nelly
of the old time as being hard. But, then, what had happened during the
years which had come between! Father and mother both had died. She had
been thrown out into the world without a friend, without a penny! His
letters had gone astray. In those early days he had been continually
wandering hither and thither. Her letters had strayed as well as his.
Struggling for existence, when she saw that no letters reached her, she
told herself either that he too had died, or that he had forgotten her.
Her heart hardened. It was with her a bitter striving for daily bread.
She had tried everything. Teaching, domestic service, chorus singing,
needlework, acting as an artist's model--she had failed in everything
alike. At the best she had only been able to keep body and soul
together. It had come to the worst at last. On the morning on which he
found her, she had been two days without food. She had decided that,
that night, if things did not mend during the intervening hours--of
which she had no hope--that she would seek for better fortune--in the
Thames.

She told her story, not all at once, but at different times, and in
answer to her lover's urgent solicitations. She herself at first
evinced a desire for reticence. The theme seemed too painful a theme
for her to dwell upon. But the man's hungry heart poured forth such
copious stores of uncritical sympathy that, after a while, it seemed to
do her good to pour into his listening ears a particular record of her
woes. She certainly had suffered. But now that the days of suffering
were ended, it began almost to be a pleasure to recall the sorrows
which were past.

In the sunshine of prosperity the woman's heart became young again, and
softer. It was not only that she became plumper--which she certainly
did--but she became, inwardly and outwardly, more beautiful. Her lover
told himself, and her, that she was more beautiful even than she had
been as a girl. He declared that she was far prettier than she appeared
in the old-time photograph. She smiled, and she charmed him with an
infinite charm.

The days drew near to the wedding. Had he had his way he would have
married her, off-hand, when he found her in the top attic in that
Chelsea slum. But she said no. Then she would not even talk of
marriage. To hear her, one would have thought that the trials she had
undergone had unfitted her for wedded life. He laughed her out of
that--a day was fixed. She postponed it once, and then again. She had it
that she needed time to recuperate--that she would not marry with the
shadow of that grisly past still haunting her at night. He argued that
the royal road to recuperation was in his arms. He declared that she
would be troubled by no haunting shadows as his dear wife. And, at
last, she yielded. A final date was fixed. That day drew near.

As the day drew near, she grew more tender. On the night before the
wedding-day her tenderness reached, as it were, its culminating point.
Never before had she been so sweet--so softly caressing. They were but
to part for a few short hours. In the morning they were to meet, never,
perhaps, to part again. But it seemed as if he could not tear himself
away, and as if she could not let him go.

Just before he left her a little dialogue took place between them,
which if lover-like, none the less was curious.

"Tom" she said, "suppose, after we are married, you should find out
that I have not been so good as you thought, what would you say?"

"Say?--nothing."

"Oh yes, you would, else you would be less than man. Suppose, for
instance, that you found out I had deceived you."

"I decline to suppose impossibilities."

She had been circled by his arms. Now she drew herself away from him.
She stood where the gaslight fell right on her.

"Tom, look at me carefully! Are you sure you know me?"

"Nelly!"

"Are you quite sure you are not mistaking me for some one else? Are you
quite sure, Tom?"

"My own!"

He took her in his arms again. As he did so, she looked him steadfastly
in the face.

"Tom, I think it possible that, some day, you may think less of me
than you do now. But"--she put her hand over his mouth to stop his
speaking--"whatever you may think of me, I shall always love you"--there
was an appreciable pause, and an appreciable catching of her
breath--"better than my life."

She kissed him, with unusual abandonment, long and fervently, upon the
lips.

The morning of the following day came with the promise of fine weather.
Theirs had been an unfashionable courtship--it was to be an
unfashionable wedding. Mr. Gibbs was to call for his bride, at her
lodgings. They were to drive together, in a single hired brougham, to
the church.

Even before the appointed hour, the expectant bridegroom drew up to the
door of the house in which his lady-love resided. His knock was
answered with an instant readiness which showed that his arrival had
been watched and waited for. The landlady herself opened the door, her
countenance big with tidings.

"Miss Brock has gone, sir."

"Gone!" Mr. Gibbs was puzzled by the woman's tone. "Gone where? For a
walk?"

"No, sir, she's gone away. She's left this letter, sir, for you."

The landlady thrust an envelope into his hand. It was addressed simply,
"Thomas Gibbs, Esq." With the envelope in his hand, and an odd
something clutching at his heart, he went into the empty sitting-room.
He took the letter out of its enclosure, and this is what he read:

"My own, own Tom,--You never were mine, and it is the last time I shall
ever call you so. I am going back, I have only too good reason to fear,
to the life from which you took me, because--_I am not your Nelly_."

The words were doubly underlined, they were unmistakable, yet he had to
read them over and over again before he was able to grasp their
meaning. What did they mean? Had his darling suddenly gone mad? The
written sheet swam before his eyes. It was with an effort he read on.

"How you ever came to mistake me for her I cannot understand. The more
I have thought of it, the stranger it has seemed. I suppose there must
be a resemblance between us--between your Nelly and me. Though I expect
the resemblance is more to the face in Mr. Bodenham's picture than it
is to mine. I never did think the woman in Mr. Bodenham's picture was
like me--though I was his model. I never could have been the original
of your photograph of Nelly--it is not in the least like me. I think
that you came to England with your heart and mind and eyes so full of
Nelly, and so eager for a sight of her, that, in your great hunger of
love, you grasped at the first chance resemblance you encountered. That
is the only explanation I can think of, Tom, of how you can have
mistaken me for her.

"My part is easier to explain. It is quite true, as I told you, that I
was starving when you came to me. I was so weak and faint, and sick at
heart, that your sudden appearance and strange behaviour--in a perfect
stranger, for you were a perfect stranger, Tom--drove from me the few
senses I had left. When I recovered I found myself in the arms of a man
who seemed to know me, and who spoke to me words of love--words which I
had never heard from the lips of a man before. I sent you to buy me
food. While you were gone I told myself--wickedly! I know, Tom it was
wickedly!--what a chance had come at last, which would save me from the
river, at least for a time, and I should be a fool to let it slip. I
perceived that you were mistaking me for some one else. I resolved to
allow you to continue under your misapprehension. I did not doubt that
you would soon discover your mistake. What would happen then I did not
pause to think. But events marched quicker than I, in that first moment
of mad impulse, had bargained for. You never did discover your mistake.
How that was, even now I do not understand. But you began to talk of
marriage. That was a prospect I dared not face.

"For one thing--forgive me for writing it, but I must write it, now
that I am writing to you for the first and for the last time--I began
to love you. Not for the man I supposed you to be, but for the man I
knew you were. I loved you--and I love you! I shall never cease to love
you, with a love of which I did not think I was capable. As I told you,
Tom, last night--when I kissed you!--I love you better than my own
life. Better, far better, for my life is worthless, and you--you are
not worthless, Tom! And I would not--even had I dared!--allow you to
marry me; not for myself, but for another; not for the present, but for
the past; not for the thing I was, but for the thing which you supposed
I had been, once. I would have married you for your own sake; you would
not have married me for mine. And so, since I dared not undeceive
you--I feared to see the look which would come in your face and your
eyes--I am going to steal back, like a thief, to the life from which you
took me. I have had a greater happiness than ever I expected. I have
enjoyed those stolen kisses which they say are sweetest. Your happiness
is still to come. You will find Nelly. Such love as yours will not go
unrewarded. I have been but an incident, a chapter in your life, which
now is closed. God bless you, Tom! I am yours, although you are not
mine--not yours, Nelly Brock--but yours, Helen Reeves."

Mr. Gibbs read this letter once, then twice, and then again. Then he
rang the bell. The landlady appeared with a suspicious promptitude
which suggested the possibility of her having been a spectator of his
proceedings through the keyhole.

"When did Miss Brock go out?"

"Quite early, sir. I'm sure, sir, I was quite taken aback when she said
that she was going--on her wedding-day and all."

"Did she say where she was going?"

"Not a word, sir. She said: 'Mrs. Horner, I am going away. Give this
letter to Mr. Gibbs when he comes.' That was every word she says, sir;
then she goes right out of the front door."

"Did she take any luggage?"

"Just the merest mite of a bag, sir--not another thing."

Mr. Gibbs asked no other questions. He left the room and went out into
the street. The driver of the brougham was instructed to drive, not to
church, but--to his evident and unconcealed surprise--to that slum in
Chelsea. She had written that she was returning to the old life. The
old life was connected with that top attic. He thought it might be
worth his while to inquire if anything had been seen or heard of her.
Nothing had. He left his card, with instructions to write him should
any tidings come that way. Then, since it was unadvisable to drive
about all day under the ægis of a Jehu, whose button-hole was adorned
with a monstrous wedding favour, he dismissed the carriage and sent it
home.

He turned into the King's Road. He was walking in the direction of
Sloane Square, when a voice addressed him from behind.

"Tom!"

It was a woman's voice. He turned. A woman was standing close behind
him, looking and smiling at him--a stout and a dowdy woman. Cheaply and
flashily dressed in faded finery--not the sort of woman whose
recognition one would be over-anxious to compel. Mr. Gibbs looked at
her. There was something in her face and in her voice which struck
faintly some forgotten chord in his memory.

"Tom! don't you know me? I am Nelly."

He looked at her intently for some instants. Then it all flashed over
him. This was Nelly, the real Nelly, the Nelly of his younger days, the
Nelly he had come to find. This dandy sloven, whose shrill voice
proclaimed her little vulgar soul--so different from that other Nelly,
whose soft, musical tones had not been among the least of her charms.
The recognition came on him with the force of a sudden shock. He
reeled, so that he had to clutch at a railing to help him stand.

"Tom! what's the matter? Aren't you well? Or is it the joy of seeing me
has sent you silly?"

She laughed, the dissonant laughter of the female Cockney of a certain
class. Mr. Gibbs recovered his balance and his civility.

"Thank you, I am very well. And you?"

"Oh, I'm all right. There's never much the matter with me. I can't
afford the time to be ill." She laughed again. "Well, this is a start
my meeting you. Come and have a bit o' dinner along with us."

"Who is us? Your father and your mother?"

"Why, father, he's been dead these five years, and mother, she's been
dead these three. I don't want you to have a bit of dinner along with
them--not hardly." Again she laughed. "It's my old man I mean. Why, you
don't mean to say you don't know I'm married! Why, I'm the mother of
five."

He had fallen in at her side. They were walking on together--he like a
man in a dream.

"We're doing pretty well considering, we manage to live, you know." She
laughed again. She seemed filled with laughter, which was more than Mr.
Gibbs was then. "We're fishmongers, that's what we are. William he's
got a very tidy trade, as good as any in the road. There, here's our
shop!" She paused in front of a fishmonger's shop. "And there's our
name"--she pointed up at it. "Nelly Brock I used to be, and now I'm
Mrs. William Morgan."

She laughed again. She led the way through the shop to a little room
beyond. A man was seated on the table, reading a newspaper, a man
without a coat on, and with a blue apron tied about his waist.

"William, who do you think I've brought to see you? You'll never guess
in a month of Sundays. This is Tom Gibbs, of whom you've heard me speak
dozens of times."

Mr. Morgan wiped his hand upon his apron.

Then he held it out to Mr. Gibbs. Mr. Gibbs was conscious, as he
grasped it, that it reeked of fish.

"How are you, Gibbs? Glad to see you!" Mr. Morgan turned to his wife.
"Where's that George? There's a pair of soles got to be sent up to
Sydney Street, and there's not a soul about the place to take 'em."

"That George is a dratted nuisance, that's what he is. He never is
anywhere to be found when you want him. You remember, William, me
telling you about Tom Gibbs? My old sweetheart, you know, he was. He
went away to make his fortune, and I was to wait for him till he came
back, and I daresay I should have waited if you hadn't just happened to
come along."

"I wish I hadn't just happened, then. I wish she'd waited for you,
Gibbs. It'd have been better for me, and worse for you, old man."

"That's what they all say, you know, after a time."

Mrs. Morgan laughed. But Mr. Morgan did not seem to be in a
particularly jovial frame of mind.

"It's all very well for you to talk, you know, but I don't like the way
things are managed in this house, and so I tell you. There's your new
lodger come while you've been out, and her room's like a regular
pig-sty, and I had to show her upstairs myself, with the shop chock-full
of customers." Mr. Morgan drew his hand across his nose. "See you
directly, Gibbs; some one must attend to business."

Mr. Morgan withdrew to the shop. Mr. Gibbs and his old love were left
alone.

"Never you mind, William. He's all right; but he's a bit huffy--men
will get huffy when things don't go just as they want 'em. I'll just
run upstairs and send the lodger down here, while I tidy up her room.
The children slept in it last night. I never expected her till this
afternoon; she's took me unawares. You wait here; I shan't be half a
minute. Then we'll have a bit of dinner."

Mr. Gibbs, left alone, sat in a sort of waking dream. Could this be
Nelly--the Nelly of whom he had dreamed, for whom he had striven, whom
he had come to find--this mother of five? Why, she must have begun to
play him false almost as soon as his back was turned. She must have
already been almost standing at the altar steps with William Morgan
while writing the last of her letters to him. And had his imagination,
or his memory, tricked him? Had youth, or distance, lent enchantment to
the view? Had she gone back, or had he advanced? Could she have been
the vulgar drab which she now appeared to be, in the days of long ago?

As he sat there, endeavouring to resolve these riddles which had been
so suddenly presented for solution, the door opened and some one
entered.

"I beg your pardon," said the voice of the intruder, on perceiving that
the room was already provided with an occupant.

Mr. Gibbs glanced up. The voice fell like the voice of a magician on
his ear. He rose to his feet, all trembling. In the doorway was
standing the other Nelly--the false, and yet the true one. The Nelly of
his imagination. The Nelly to whom he was to have been married that
day. He went to her with a sudden cry.

"Nelly!"

"Tom!" She shrank away. But in spite of her shrinking, he took her in
his arms.

"My own, own darling."

"Tom," she moaned, "don't you understand--I'm not Nelly!"

"I know it, and I thank God, my darling, you are not."

"Tom! What do you mean?"

"I mean that I have found Nelly, and I mean that, thank Heaven! I have
found you too--never, my darling, please Heaven! to lose sight of you
again."

They had only just time to withdraw from a too suspicious
neighbourhood, before the door opened again to admit Mrs. Morgan.

"Tom, this is our new lodger. I just asked her if she'd mind stepping
downstairs while I tidied up her room a bit. Miss Reeves, this is an
old sweetheart of mine--Mr. Gibbs."

Mr. Gibbs turned to the "new lodger."

"Miss Reeves and I are already acquainted. Miss Reeves, you have heard
me speak of Mrs. Morgan, though not by that name. This is Nelly."

Miss Reeves turned and looked at Mrs. Morgan, and as she looked--she
gasped.

                            La Haute Finance

                  A TALE OF THE BIGGEST COUP ON RECORD

                               CHAPTER I

"By Jove! I believe it could be done!"

Mr. Rodney Railton took the cigarette out of his mouth and sent a puff
of smoke into the air.

"I believe it could, by Jove!"

Another puff of smoke.

"I'll write to Mac."

He drew a sheet of paper towards him and penned the following:--

"DEAR ALEC,--Can you give me some dinner to-night? Wire me if you have
a crowd. I shall be in the House till four. Have something to propose
which will make your hair stand up.

                               "Yours, R. R."

This he addressed "Alexander Macmathers, Esq., 27, Campden Hill
Mansions." As he went downstairs he gave the note to the
commissionaire, with instructions that it should be delivered at once
by hand.

That night Mr. Railton dined with Mr. Macmathers. The party consisted
of three, the two gentlemen and a lady--Mrs. Macmathers, in fact. Mr.
Macmathers was an American--a Southerner--rather tall and weedy, with a
heavy, drooping moustache, like his hair, raven black. He was not
talkative. His demeanour gave a wrong impression of the man--the
impression that he was not a man of action. As a matter of fact, he was
a man of action before all things else. He was not rich, as riches go,
but certainly he was not poor. His temperament was cosmopolitan, and
his profession Jack-of-all-trades. Wherever there was money to be made,
he was there. Sometimes, it must be confessed, he was there, too, when
there was money to be lost. His wife was English--keen and clever. Her
chief weakness was that she would persist in looking on existence as a
gigantic lark. When she was most serious she regarded life least _au
sérieux_.

Mr. Railton, who had invited himself to dinner, was a hybrid--German
mother, English father. He was quite a young man--say thirty. His host
was perhaps ten, his hostess five years older than himself. He was a
stockjobber--ostensibly in the Erie market. All that he had he had
made, for he had, as a boy, found himself the situation of a clerk. But
his clerkly days were long since gone. No one anything like his age had
a better reputation in the House; it was stated by those who had best
reason to know that he had never once been left, and few had a larger
credit. Lately he had wandered outside his markets to indulge in little
operations in what he called _La Haute Finance_. In these Mr.
Macmathers had been his partner more than once, and in him he had found
just the man he wished to find.

When they had finished dinner, the lady withdrew, and the gentlemen
were left alone.

"Well," observed Mr. Macmathers, "what's going to make my hair stand
up?"

Mr. Railton stroked his chin as he leaned both his elbows on the board.

"Of course, Mac, I can depend on you. I'm just giving myself away. It's
no good my asking you to observe strict confidence, for, if you won't
come in, from the mere fact of your knowing it the thing's just busted
up, that's all."

"Sounds like a mystery-of-blood-to-thee-I'll-now-unfold sort of thing."

"I don't know about mystery, but there'll be plenty of blood."

Mr. Railton stopped short and looked at his friend.

"Blood, eh? I say, Rodney, think before you speak."

"I have thought. I thought I'd play the game alone. But it's too big a
game for one."

"Well, if you have thought, out with it, or be silent evermore."

"You know Plumline, the dramatist?"

"I know he's an ass."

"Ass or no ass, it's from him I got the idea."

"Good Heavens! No wonder it smells of blood."

"He's got an idea for a new play, and he came to me to get some local
colouring. I'll just tell you the plot--he was obliged to tell it me,
or I couldn't have given him the help he wanted."

"Is it essential? I have enough of Plumline's plots when I see them on
the stage."

"It is essential. You will see."

Mr. Railton got up, lighted a cigar, and stood before the fireplace.
When he had brought the cigar into good going order he unfolded Mr.
Plumline's plot.

"I'm not going to bore you. I'm just going to touch upon that part
which gave me my idea. There's a girl who dreams of boundless wealth--a
clever girl, you understand."

"Girls who dream of boundless wealth sometimes are clever," murmured
his friend. Perhaps he had his wife in his mind's eye.

"She is wooed and won by a financier. Not wooed and won by a tale of
love, but by the exposition of an idea."

"That's rather new--for Plumline."

"The financier has an idea for obtaining the boundless wealth of which
she only dreams."

"And the idea?"

"Is the bringing about of a war between France and Germany."

"Great snakes!" The cigarette dropped from between Mr. Macmather's
lips. He carefully picked it up again. "That's not a bad idea--for
Plumline."

"It's my idea as well. In the play it fails. The financier comes to
grief. I shouldn't fail. There's just that difference."

Mr. Macmathers regarded his friend in silence before he spoke again.

"Railton, might I ask you to enlarge upon your meaning? I want to see
which of us two is drunk."

"In the play the man has a big bear account--the biggest upon record. I
need hardly tell you that a war between France and Germany would mean
falling markets. Supposing we were able to calculate with certainty the
exact moment of the outbreak--arrange it, in fact--we might realise
wealth beyond the dreams of avarice--hundreds of thousands of millions,
if we chose."

"I suppose you're joking?"

"How?"

"That's what I want to know--how."

"It does sound, at first hearing, like a joke, to suppose that a couple
of mere outsiders can, at their own sweet will and pleasure, stir up a
war between two Great Powers."

"A joke is a mild way of describing it, my friend."

"Alec, would you mind asking Mrs. Macmathers to form a third on this
occasion?"

Mr. Macmathers eyed his friend for a moment, then got up and left the
room. When he returned his wife was with him. It was to the lady Mr.
Railton addressed himself.

"Mrs. Macmathers, would you like to be possessed of wealth compared to
which the wealth of the Vanderbilts, the Rothschilds, the Mackays, the
Goulds, would shrink into insignificance?"

"Why, certainly."

It was a peculiarity of the lady's that, while she was English, she
affected what she supposed to be American idioms.

"Would you stick at a little to obtain it?"

"Certainly not."

"It would be worth one's while to run a considerable risk."

"I guess."

"Mrs. Macmathers, I want to go a bear, a large bear, to win, say--I
want to put it modestly--a hundred millions."

"Pounds?"

"Pounds."

It is to be feared that Mrs. Macmathers whistled.

"Figures large," she said.

"All the world knows that war is inevitable between France and
Germany."

"Proceed."

"I want to arrange that it shall break out at the moment when it best
suits me."

"I guess you're a modest man," she said.

Her husband smiled.

"If you consider for a moment, it would not be so difficult as it first
appears. It requires but a spark to set the fire burning. There is at
least one party in France to whom war would mean the achievement of all
their most cherished dreams. It is long odds that a war would bring
some M. Quelquechose to the front with a rush. He will be at least
untried. And, of late years, it is the untried men who have the
people's confidence in France. A few resolute men, my dear Mrs.
Macmathers, have only to kick up a shindy on the Alsatian
borders--Europe will be roused, in the middle of the night, by the
roaring of the flames of war."

There was a pause. Mrs. Macmathers got up and began to pace the room.

"It's a big order," she said.

"Allowing the feasibility of your proposition, I conclude that you have
some observations to make upon it from a moral point of view. It
requires them, my friend."

Mr. Macmathers said this with a certain dryness.

"Moral point of view be hanged! It could be argued, mind, and defended;
but I prefer to say candidly, the moral point of view be hanged!"

"Has it not occurred to you to think that the next Franco-German war
may mean the annihilation of one of the parties concerned?"

"You mistake the position. I should have nothing to do with the war. I
should merely arrange the date for its commencement. With or without me
they would fight."

"You would merely consign two or three hundred thousand men to die at
the moment which would best suit your pocket."

"There is that way of looking at it, no doubt. But you will allow me to
remind you that you considered the possibility of creating a corner in
corn without making unpleasant allusions to the fact that it might have
meant starvation to thousands."

The lady interposed.

"Mr. Railton, leaving all that sort of thing alone, what is it that you
propose?"

"The details have still to be filled in. Broadly I propose to arrange a
series of collisions with the German frontier authorities. I propose to
get them boomed by the Parisian Press. I propose to give some M.
Quelquechose his chance."

"It's the biggest order ever I heard."

"Not so big as it sounds. Start to-morrow, and I believe that we should
be within measureable distance of war next week. Properly managed, I
will at least guarantee that all the Stock Exchanges of Europe go down
with a run."

"If the thing hangs fire, how about carrying over?"

"Settle. No carrying over for me. I will undertake that there is a
sufficient margin of profit. Every account we will do a fresh bear
until the trick is made. Unless I am mistaken, the trick will be made
with a rapidity of which you appear to have no conception."

"It is like a dream of the Arabian nights," the lady said.

"Before the actual reality the Arabian nights pale their ineffectual
fires. It is a chance which no man ever had before, which no man may
ever have again. I don't think, Macmathers, we ought to let it slip."

They did not let it slip.

                               CHAPTER II

Mr. Railton was acquainted with a certain French gentleman who rejoiced
in the name--according to his own account--of M. Hippolyte de
Vrai-Castille. The name did not sound exactly French--M. de Vrai-Castille
threw light on this by explaining that his family came originally from
Spain. But, on the other hand, it must be allowed that the name did not
sound exactly Spanish, either. London appeared to be this gentleman's
permanent place of residence. Political reasons--so he stated--rendered
it advisable that he should not appear too prominently upon
his--theoretically--beloved _boulevards_. Journalism--always following
this gentleman's account of himself--was the profession to which he devoted
the flood-tide of his powers. The particular journal or journals which
were rendered famous by the productions of his pen were rather
difficult to discover--there appeared to be political reasons, too, for
that.

"The man is an all-round bad lot." This was what Mr. Railton said when
speaking of this gentleman to Mr. and Mrs. Macmathers. "A type of
scoundrel only produced by France. Just the man we want."

"Flattering," observed his friend. "You are going to introduce us to
high company."

Mr. Railton entertained this gentleman to dinner in a private room at
the Hotel Continental. M. de Vrai-Castille did not seem to know exactly
what to make of it. Nothing in his chance acquaintance with Mr. Railton
had given him cause to suppose that the Englishman regarded him as a
respectable man, and this sudden invitation to fraternise took him a
little aback. Possibly he was taken still more aback before the evening
closed. Conversation languished during the meal; but when it was
over--and the waiters gone--Mr. Railton became very conversational indeed.

"Look here, What's-your-name"--this was how Mr. Railton addressed M. de
Vrai-Castille--"I know very little about you, but I know enough to
suspect that you have nothing in the world excepting what you steal."

"M. Railton is pleased to have his little jest."

If it was a jest, it was not one, judging from the expression of M. de
Vrai-Castille's countenance which he entirely relished.

"What would you say if I presented you with ten thousand pounds?"

"I should say----"

What he said need not be recorded, but M. de Vrai-Castille used some
very bad language indeed, expressive of the satisfaction with which the
gift would be received.

"And suppose I should hint at your becoming possessed of another
hundred thousand pounds to back it?"

"Pardon me, M. Railton, but is it murder? If so, I would say frankly at
once that I have always resolved that in those sort of transactions I
would take no hand."

"Stuff and nonsense! It is nothing of the kind! You say you are a
politician. Well, I want you to pose as a patriot--a French patriot,
you understand."

Mr. Railton's eyes twinkled. M. de Vrai-Castille grinned in reply.

"The profession is overcrowded," he murmured, with a deprecatory
movement of his hands.

"Not on the lines I mean to work it. Did you lose any relatives in the
war?"

"It depends."

"I feel sure you did. And at this moment the bodies of those patriots
are sepultured in Alsatian soil. I want you to dig them up again."

"_Mon Dieu! Ce charmant homme!_"

"I want you to form a league for the recovery of the remains of those
noble spirits who died for their native land, and whose bones now lie
interred in what was France, but which now, alas! is France no more. I
want you to go in for this bone recovery business as far as possible on
a wholesale scale."

"_Ciel! Maintenant j'ai trouvé un homme extraordinaire!_"

"You will find no difficulty in obtaining the permission of the
necessary authorities sanctioning your schemes; but at the very last
moment, owing to some stated informality, the German brigands will
interfere even at the edge of the already open grave; patriot bones
will be dishonoured, France will be shamed in the face of all the
world."

"And then?"

"The great heart of France is a patient heart, my friend, but even
France will not stand that. There will be war."

"And then?"

"On the day on which war is declared, one hundred thousand pounds will
be paid to you in cash."

"And supposing there is no war?"

"Should France prefer to cower beneath her shame, you shall still
receive ten thousand pounds."

                              CHAPTER III

The following extract is from the _Times'_ Parisian correspondence--

"The party of La Revanche is taking a new departure. I am in a position
to state that certain gentlemen are putting their heads together. A
league is being formed for the recovery of the bodies of various
patriots who are at present asleep in Alsace. I have my own reasons for
asserting that some remarkable proceedings may be expected soon. No man
knows better than myself that there is nothing some Frenchmen will not
do."

On the same day there appeared in _La Patrie_ a really touching
article. It was the story of two brothers--one was, the other was not;
in life they had been together, but in death they were divided. Both
alike had fought for their native land. One returned--_désolé!_--to
Paris. The other stayed behind. He still stayed behind. It appeared
that he was buried in Alsace, in a nameless grave! But they had vowed,
these two, that they would share all things--among the rest, that sleep
which even patriots must know, the unending sleep of death. "It is
said," said the article in conclusion, "that that nameless grave, in
what was France, will soon know none--or two!" It appeared that the
surviving brother was going for that "nameless grave" on the principle
of double or quits.

The story appeared, with variations, in a considerable number of
journals. The _Daily Telegraph_ had an amusing allusion to the fondness
displayed by certain Frenchmen for their relatives--dead, for the
"bones" of their fathers. But no one was at all prepared for the events
which followed.

One morning the various money articles alluded to heavy sales which had
been effected the day before, "apparently by a party of outside
speculators." In particular heavy bear operations were reported from
Berlin. Later in the day the evening papers came out with telegrams
referring to "disturbances" at a place called Pont-sur-Leaune.
Pont-sur-Leaune is a little Alsatian hamlet. The next day the tale was
in everybody's mouth. Certain misguided but well-meaning Frenchmen had
been "shot down" by the German authorities. Particulars had not yet
come to hand, but it appeared, according to the information from Paris,
that a party of Frenchmen had journeyed to Alsace with the intention of
recovering the bodies of relatives who had been killed in the war; on
the very edge of the open graves German soldiers had shot them down.
Telegrams from Berlin stated that a party of body-snatchers had been
caught in the very act of plying their nefarious trade; no mention of
shooting came from there. Although the story was doubted in the City,
it had its effect on the markets--prices fell. It was soon seen, too,
that the bears were at it again. Foreign telegrams showed that their
influence was being felt all round; very heavy bear raids were again
reported from Berlin. Markets became unsettled, with a downward
tendency, and closing prices were the worst of the day.

Matters were not improved by the news of the morrow. A Frenchman had
been shot--his name was Hippolyte de Vrai-Castille, and a manifesto
from his friends had already appeared in Paris. According to this, they
had been betrayed by the German authorities. They had received
permission from those authorities to take the bodies of certain of
their relatives and lay them in French soil. While they were acting on
this permission they were suddenly attacked by German soldiers, and he,
their leader, that patriot soul, Hippolyte de Vrai-Castille, was dead.
But there was worse than that. They had prepared flags in which to wrap
the bodies of the dead. Those flags--emblems of France--had been seized
by the rude German soldiers, torn into fragments, trampled in the dust.
The excitement in Paris appeared to be intense. All that day there was
a falling market.

The next day's papers were full of contradictory telegrams. From Berlin
the affair was pooh-poohed. The story of permission having been
accorded by the authorities was pure fiction--there had been a scuffle
in which a man had been killed, probably by his own friends--the tale
of the dishonoured flags was the invention of an imaginative brain. But
these contradictions were for the most part frantically contradicted by
the Parisian Press. There was a man in Paris who had actually figured
on the scene. He had caught M. de Vrai-Castille in his arms as he fell,
he had been stained by his heart's blood, his cheek had been torn open
by the bullet which killed his friend. Next his heart he at that moment
carried portions of the flags--emblems of France!--which had been
subjected to such shame.

But it was on the following day that the situation first took a
definitely serious shape. Placards appeared on every dead wall in
Paris, small bills were thrust under every citizen's door--on the bills
and placards were printed the same words. They were signed
"Quelquechose." They pointed out that France owed her present
degradation--like all her other degradations--to her Government. The
nation was once more insulted; the Army was once more betrayed; the
national flag had been trampled on again, as it had been trampled on
before. Under a strong Government these things could not be, but under
a Government of cowards----! Let France but breathe the word, "La
Grande Nation" would exist once more. Let the Army but make a sign,
there would be "La Grande Armée" as of yore.

That night there was a scene in the Chamber. M. de Caragnac--_à propos
des botte_--made a truly remarkable speech. He declared that permission
had been given to these men. He produced documentary evidence to that
effect. He protested that these men--true citizens of France!--had been
the victims of a "Prussian" plot. As to the outrage to the national
flag, had it been perpetrated, say, in Tonkin, "cannons would be
belching forth their thunders now." But in Alsace--"this brave
Government dare only turn to the smiters the other cheek." In the
galleries they cheered him to the echo. On the tribune there was
something like a free fight. When the last telegrams were despatched to
London, Paris appeared to be approaching a state of riot.

The next day there burst a thunderbolt. Five men had been detained by
the German authorities. They had escaped--had been detected in the act
of flight--had been shot at while running. Two of them had been killed.
A third had been fatally wounded. The news--flavoured to taste--was
shouted from the roofs of the houses. Paris indulged in one of its
periodical fits of madness. The condition of the troops bore a strong
family likeness to mutiny. And in the morning Europe was electrified by
the news that a revolution had been effected in the small hours of the
morning, that the Chambers had been dissolved, and that with the Army
were the issues of peace and war.

                   *   *   *   *   *

On the day of the declaration of the war between France and
Germany--that heavy-laden day--an individual called on Mr. Rodney Railton
whose appearance caused that gentleman to experience a slight sensation
of surprise.

"De Vrai-Castille! I was wondering if you had left any instructions as
to whom I was to pay that hundred thousand pounds. I thought that you
were dead."

"Monsieur mistakes. My name is Henri Kerchrist, a name not unknown in
my native Finistère. M. Hippolyte de Vrai-Castille is dead. I saw him
die. It was to me he directed that you should pay that hundred thousand
pounds."

As he made these observations, possibly owing to some local weakness,
"Henri Kerchrist" winked the other eye.
