TITLE: Fairy Water: A Christmas Story
AUTHOR: Charlotte Riddell (Mrs. J. H. Riddell)
FIRST PUBLICATION YEAR: 1873
FORM: Christmas novella / haunted-house fiction
SOURCE EDITION/CONTAINER: Routledge's Christmas Annual (1873)
SOURCE URL: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/1/16/Fairy_Water%2C_A_Christmas_Story.pdf
SOURCE PDF PAGES EXTRACTED: 26-131
TEXT STATUS: Lightly cleaned machine OCR; not a corrected diplomatic transcription.
EDITORIAL NOTE: Check quotations, punctuation, proper names, and suspected OCR errors against the scan before scholarly quotation.

--- BEGIN OCR TEXT ---

CHAPTER I.

Mr. H. Stafford Trevor, Barrister-at-law, introduced by himself.
No one who has met me in society, will be in the least degree
astonished when he, or haply she, hears I have at length
decided to appear before the British, American, Foreign, and
Colonial public, as a writer of tales.
I am one of those people concerning whom partial friends remark,
" He can do anything he likes."
Considering the number of people about whom the same observation is made, it is painful to reflect how few must like to do anything.
It is late in life, no doubt, for me to take to a new profession, but
having been most courteously asked to contribute to the literature of
my country, I feel it impossible to refuse.
Besides , at the present time, literature is the fashion, and I have
always tried to be in the fashion. I am perpetually meeting young
men, and (more especially) young women, who are the precocious
parents of books more or less absurd, inane, objectionable, recondite,
who have new views about morals, religion, Moses, and Catherine of
Russia, and am expected to derive pleasure from their acquaintance.
For the future when people meet me, they can go home and mention that amongst the company at Mr. So and So's, was Mr. Stafford
Trevor, the author.
At how cheap a rate can we confer pleasure ! It gives quite a
zest to the idea of writing this story to reflect the amount of gratification friends and enemies (supposing I have any of the latter) will
extract from the narrative and the author.
As I have already remarked, the fact of my turning author will
surprise no one. Often after I have repeated some of my best stories
for the benefit of a single listener, he has inquired :
" Why, Mr. Trevor, do you not reproduce all these good things in a
book ? "
Had I been quite frank I should have informed him I refrained
from doing so because, in fact, the good things were not mine to
reproduce ; but as he would have disbelieved my statement, I never
thought it worth while to enlighten him on the subject.
Now, however, it so happens I have a little story all my own to
relate, I consent to appearing in print.

Besides other people, places and things, the story concerns a place
called Fairy Water, and a lady of whom I was and am very fond, a
cousin of mine by marriage-that is to say, she married my cousin
Geoffrey Trevor, and he left her a widow, whereon hangs a tale-that I
am about to tell.
Naturally, however, before I say much about Mr. Geoffrey Trevor,
Iwish to state, and the reader wishes to hear, some facts relatingto
myself.
The world now- a-days is extremely curious concerning genius.
Whether this curiosity arises from any abstract interest in genius, or a
belief genius is to be caught like small-pox, fever, whooping-cough, or
the measles, it would be presumptuous in me to decide.
Certain, however, it is, that the smallest details of the domestic life,
habits, manners, modes of thought of eminent people are listened to
with a rapt attention wonderful to contemplate ; and many of my
own later successes in life I can trace to the fact of being able to tell
enthusiastic ladies that Mr. A--'s novel, which drew tears from so
many eyes, was absolutely a photograph from life his own ; that in
spite of the Bohemianism of her plots, Mrs. B- is a devoted
wife and affectionate mother ; that Mr. C , whose style is neat
and epigrammatic, suggestive of a quiet study, can write anywhere,
under any circumstances.
" Give him a waiting-room at the Paddington Station full of people,
an express train ; the wilds of Connemara, or the snowy peaks of
Switzerland : it is immaterial ; his sentences will be as finished, his
sentences as complete," I say, in my best manner.
Concerning Mr. D-, I am only able to state with areserve which
elicits the remark that I am such dear satirical creature, whenever he
a

brings out a new book he flies to the Continent for fear of seeing a bad
review, which is, indeed, a simple impossibility, unless a new race of
reviewers should spring up ignorant of the traditions of the elders.
Mrs. E--, I tell my neighbour in strict confidence, draws her
ideas of life from going disguised as a sister of mercy through St.
Giles' in the morning, and finishing the day, not disguised, at a supperhouse near the theatres. As for Miss F , I state, when she girds
up her loins to write a book, she clothes herself in white, drinks eau
sucrée, and refuses to eat her meals like an ordinary mortal.
Thus I go through the alphabet, and each hearer in succession tries,
I believe, the white dress, and the eau sucrée, and the sister of mercy
business, in hopes that by such eccentricities she too may be able to
make some fabulous sum per volume, per page, per line.
Andwhy, then, if the limited public I meet at dinners, at lawnparties,
at kettledrums, at crowded evenings, delight to listen to such weak
details of the minor doings ofgreat people ; why, I ask, should the general
public not care to hear of the great doings of a small man like myself.
If there is one thing about me which ought to win praise, it is this
-I am non-assuming.
Inever put down a man nor condescend to a woman ; I am not
clever, or sarcastic, or energetic, or anything except useful.
There you have me in a nutshell. If I have been anything in my
life I have been useful. If I have not been useful I have been nothing.
Permit me to explain. I have not been a drudge, not useful in the

cart-horse and maid-of-all-work sense, but useful as flowers, as music,
as perfume, as colour, as sunshine, as painting, as trees in the distance,
as water in the foreground.
I have been ornamentally useful ; I have filled up corners in the
world's economy which must, otherwise, have remained hideously bare
of bud and blossom, and the world has evidenced extreme gratitude for
my trouble.
When I am gone to swell the ranks of that " great majority," of
which a daily paper, more funny than any comic periodical, speaks in
terms of intimate familiarity, the world will perhaps forget me indeed,
I think it extremely probable the world may then have something else
to do than remember me-but whilst I am still " in the lobby," to quote
our comic friend once more, few of my acquaintances forget the fact of
my existence ; and to those I have not lately had the pleasure of meeting, the advertisement of this Annual will be an agreeable reminder
thatNaturally,
H. Staffordthose
Trevor is up to the present hour in the minority.
persons whom I have not already the happiness
of knowing, will wish me to divide my personal explanation into two
heads-viz. , Who am I ? Whence am I ?
Truth compels me at this juncture to confess I have heard those
two questions propounded ere now from the pulpit, but the reader ımay
rest tranquil, I have no intention of analyzing my own position, as
an individual : I am about considering it in common with that society
for which I live, and move, and have my being.
At the head of this chapter you have my profession. I am
H. Stafford Trevor, barrister-at-law.
As a barrister-at-law I have done very little. Law is one of those
things in which I might have achieved success had I liked, but then I
did not like.
Once I overheard a man ask : " What does Trevor do ? " to which
his friend replied, " He dines out."
The creature who said this is a barrister-at-law, and his friends have
decided he can do nothing ; nevertheless, I am bound to confess he
summed up the case neatly.
I do dine out. If I have a profession itis dining out ; if upon any
settled system I do anything, it is accepting invitations. That is how
I am useful. Perhaps, reader, you are inclined to sneer at this, but
before you sneer, pause, and let me ask-
" Do you ever dine out ? "
" No," you answer, for two reasons ; I may say one, expressed,
" You would not if you could ; " the second, and more cogent, nonexpressed, " You could not if you would."
Now I can : that is one of the things I have liked to do ; and it is
an accomplished fact, more dinners have been graced by my presence
than you could well count ; but as the lesser is included in the greater,
there are many things included in the art of dining out.
First, you wish to know how I managed to get invited to so many
houses, that my face is as well known to butlers, footmen, and-yeswhy should I hesitate-hired waiters, as that of Mr. D'Israeli is to the
readers of " Punch ."
Ab, friend, Rome was not built in a day, and many a year of my life
has gone in making myself free of London society.

There is a fate in these things. By all rules known and unknown,
I ought to have been a doctor jingling guineas, or a barrister making
his way to the Woolsack, or a professor discovering all sorts of unpleasant natural facts, or solving an equal number of useless scientific
problems ; but genius knows no law. As Turner was born a painter,
Beethoven a composer, Grisi a singer, and Palmer a poisoner, so I was
born a diner out.
It is not given to every one to find out his especial talent in early
youth, and there was a period of my life when I not merely studied
law, but frequented evening parties .
As we see the needle oscillating violently when its equilibrium is
disturbed, so I went from reading to dancing, and dancing to reading,
with a distracted mind.
I felt unhappy, restless, dissatisfied ; I had not found my vocation.
Even when I was first inducted into its mysteries I failed-such is the
occasional modesty of genius-to perceive that way lay success. I
had doubts, qualms, throes. I questioned my own fitness for the
career--I over-rated the gifts possessed by others-I under-rated my
own ; but that is all gone and passed.
Many men can write, paint, sing, talk, conduct business affairs,
shine as orators, rise to eminence at the bar, lead armies to victory or
death, command vessels, grow fat oxen and fatter sheep, but there are
few, indeed, who can dine out. I can ; that inane barrister was right,
I dine out. I have dined out since I was twenty-five years of age. I
shall go on dining out till death knocks loudly and tells me to make
haste and come with him ; or till I grow old and feeble, and one I wot of
brings me gruel and other like abominations, which, however, her gentle
voice and my growing infirmities may then make bearable.
But, bah ! why should I look forward ? Has she not but just left
me saying I grow younger with the years ? Is not her kiss-it seems
so strange for a woman's lips to touch my face, that I feel as if she
must have left a mark, still visible on my cheek. It is all about her
and somebody else this story has to be told ; so I must hasten onward,
and to hasten on, as is the way of those who are well-who are not so
young as they were at twenty-five, I must go back.
My father was a wonderfully clever man ! He was one of those
people whom the world thinks so much of, and his family consider
as only a degree better than an idiot. Amongst his fellow professors
he was an authority ; at home his second wife treated him like a child.
There was not a secret in the heavens above, the earth below, and the
waters under the earth, with which he did not believe himself to be
au courant ; but he never knew where his spectacles were, no not
when they were elevated on his forehead ; he did not detect the fraud
when I took him a branch of gorse decked with laurustine blossoms,
and introduced it to his notice as a new and curious wild flower I had
discovered on Hampstead Heath ; he could not imagine why his fluteon which it was his mild pleasure to accompany the pianoforte and
harp performances of two limp old maids of our acquaintance on one
occasion refused to give forth any sound save a gurgling groan,
till my stepmother found the end of it was plugged up with a cork ;
in short, a theoretical man who never having had any business to marry at all, found himself at forty a widower with one son, and then

married for the second time a woman utterly dowerless, who bore him
various children, who have no connection whatsoever with this narrative.
There are various ways in which a parent may be useful to one.
In my capacity the professor has been infinitely useful to me, and has
made by his memory many a dinner-party more agreeable than he ever
made the social board at home.
His first wife, my mother, had a modest fortune. Happily it was
secured to her children. She had no children, only a child, a son, and
at twenty- one I found myself a man easy as regarded money matters,
and possessed of a father totally indifferent as to what I did or left
undone, so long as I did not trouble him with my affairs, or contradict
him when any of his pet theories chanced to be on the carpet.
I was a model son. He spent his last breath in blessing me.
" You have never contradicted me, Hercules, " he whispered, pressing
my hand. Dear, simple old man. If he only would come back and sit
with me in the twilight I would not contradict him, supposing he
pleased to tell me fire was not hot or ice cold.
Negative qualities are often accounted great virtues. In the later
years of my father's lifetime, silence and consent seemed grateful where
many words usually broke the stillness, and acquiescence was a thing
almost unknown .
" I ought never to have married," he said to me once, piteously.
The result of his first mistake in that line I profited by his experience . I have never married.
The feminine reader has already decided this point. Had I married
I could not have dined out.
But you wish to know how I gained the power of dining out. I
tell you it was my speciality ; once the opportunity occurred for me to
distinguish myself, my genius, not my other self achieved success.
"What a nice, modest young man Mr. Stafford Trevor is," said my
hostess . She has told me all this since.
That is a long time ago. I have been nice, modest, self-possessed,
well-bred, handsome, clever, sarcastic, good-natured in the interim ;
now I am useful. The world, my world, could little spare a better
man. Old friends welcome me for the sake of Auld Lang Syne, to speak
in the hideous idiom of a people whose accent I detest, and whose ways
are abhorrent to me-one degree less abhorrent only than their primitive ballads, always suggestive of the screech of a bagpipe. Young
couples welcome me for the sake of the dead and gone-people whose
position is assured, because, like dear Lady Mary, who plays a little
part in this story, it is quite safe to whisper secret scandals, and the
latest and most wicked bon-mot in my ear, and the nouveau riche,
because, poor wretches, they believe I must be somebody.
They see me apparently on equal terms with those who dine off
silver and gold, and call all the upper ten thousand friends and some of
them relations, and they rush to conclusions.
If I cared much for their heavy repasts, or their insufferable timeserving, I should fear for my future ; but both are growing wearisome.
Give me rather impertinent, ugly, vulgar Lady Mary, who calling
me as is her pleasant habit, by my Christian name, will say-
" I always knew you meant to have it out of us, Stafford, but it is
of no use. Till we can produce an author-not an outsider -not one like

you introduced by accident and tolerated on sufferance--the English
public will not understand the demerits of the nobility. And that will
be never. We never have produced a novelist, and, mark my words,
Stafford, we never will. "
In which opinion that I shall certainly hear announced, I quite
agree with her Ladyship.
Though, upon the whole, I am disposed to doubt whether the lower
ten millions have so much the advantage as Lady Mary sometimes
seems to imply.
The capacity for producing fools is not, I fear, confined to any class.
That, I am convinced can scarcely, seeing what one sees, be considered a monopoly. Would to heaven it were !

CHAPTER II .

I Assist at a Wedding.
It is curious how the traditions of one's youth influence the actions of
our later years .
When I was an extremely small child, I heard some person remark
that strawberries preserved the whiteness of the teeth. Sedulously
each season since I attained my majority I have eaten strawberries.
When people left London earlier than they do now, I partook of them
in the gardens of my father's cousin, Admiral Trevor ; subsequently,
when his son succeeded to the small property which gives a title to this
story, I went down each summer, and eat strawberries as I might to join
in some religious rite ; and now that Parliament unhappily sits later
and later, and that pleasant dinner-parties obtain to the very end of
the season, far past Midsummer-day, the fruit-small, sweet, fresh,
utterly unlike anything one can buy at Covent Garden-comes to me in
dainty baskets, embowered in cool green leaves, from Fairy Water.
"And where is Fairy Water ? " you ask.
Dear reader, every person has his secret, and the locale of Fairy
Water is mine. About this time in each year I begin to dream of it,
but I am not bound to tell my dreams to all the world.
I will describe it to you as I saw it first in the reign of Admiral
Trevor, a quaint building seen from the avenue : a long, low cottage,
overgrown with wistaria and ivy, with climbing roses, and Virginian
creepers, and jasmine and honeysuckle all tangled together.
"A poor place, though picturesque,” you say.
Wait a little-wait till having entered the large, though low, square
hall, and passed through the drawing-room and conservatory, you
emerge on the western front, where all delicious plants climb along
the verandah ; where myrtles shed their blossoms on grass which
slopes down to the loveliest sheet of water ever contrived by human
skill ; where the ash and the willow droop over lawns smooth and soft
as velvet ; where great trees shade the winding walks ; and within and
without peace reigns-such peace as is to be found in very few homes
on the face of this quarrelsome earth.
That is where I used to eat my strawberries ; that is the place

whence they are sent to me now. There was a time when even at
Fairy Water they lost their relish, and Iwill tell you why. It happened
in this wise : one day, in an abrupt note, my second cousin, Captain
Trevor, son of the Admiral formerly alluded to and deceased, informed
me he was about to get married.
To most men this announcement would have been disagreeable. If
he died unmarried, Fairy Water must come to me ; and to the generality of persons, no doubt, Fairy Water would have seemed a desirable
inheritance, but to me certainly not. What should I have done with
the place ? It would have cost money to keep up ; the expense must
have proved a source of eternal worry to me. I know within a trifle
what I shall have to pay my landlady, at the end of each month, for
breakfast, washing, and lodging ; but how should I ever know without
employing a professional accountant, or going through the Bankruptcy
Court, whether a place in the country, with lawns, flower-gardensstables, and horses in them-pigstyes, and pigs in them-poultryhouses, and fowls in them-a sheet of water, and swans on it-to say
nothing of Aylesbury ducks, were producing a profit or loss ?
I want no secluded dwelling before I repair to one quiet enough
in all conscience, where the landlord and the collectors may knock till
they break their knuckles, without injuring the peace of my repose.
Let others have what suits them ; for me a first floor in a vague western
district is sufficient. I should say a second, but from my youth
climbing many stairs has been distasteful to me.
Further, to revert to the Fairy Water question, I fear I should
prove but a poor host if heaven ever gave me the means to enact the
part. Some persons can dine out and others can give dinners, but, as
a rule, I do not think the best giver of dinners is the best diner out ;
a different set of qualities is required in each. An admirable host is
often a poor guest ; an admirable guest often proves a wretched,
incompetent host.
Unless, indeed, in Bohemian society, where the two qualities, like
others equally incongruous, are sometimes, though not always, united.
But, then, of what use is it referring to that vague, beautiful land,
which is as a fairy country to one not free of it by nature or
inheritance .
For myself I have visited the place, and am bound to confess I found
it exceedingly beautiful, spite of the spectacle of duns, debts, and writs ;
but I do not know how the inhabitants manage to sustain life. Dining
out may seem a mere matter of chance, but I could not dine out if I
once proclaimed myself so total a creature of circumstances as the dear
delightful inhabitants of the London city of Prague.
Some try to reduce Bohemianism to a science, but they fail, and
they will fail. To be liked, Bohemianism must be pure and simple.
The Bohemian must have no arrière pensée when he hobnobs with my
lord ; and his wife, if her husband is to prove successful, had better
leave the mutual and to-be-provided-for olive branches hanging to the
parent tree if the nobility, and others are to be favourably impressed.
I have dined so often at houses in which everything has been
solid from the furniture to the plate, that, when I find myself at
the table of a man who has to get everything he sets before his guests
on credit, and whose chance of ever being able to pay for the repast is

extremely remote, an odd sense of wonder is perpetually cropping up
in my mind as I watch that man and his friends making merry over a
banquet which has for an unbidden guest the skeleton-Debt.
I cannot understand the nature of a host, able to eat, drink, make
jests, laugh at the jests of others to-day, when all the time he must feel
tolerably certain of being arrested at some not very remote to-morrow ;
and yet I am bound to say that never, even when gold and silver dishes
have lent an unpleasant flavour to food, can I remember such dinners
as I have seen served on stone-china, with wit for sauce piquante.
Only in that vague region the meats are secondary to the wine, and
the few morning headaches which I ever experienced have always
followed excursions into Bohemia.
Perhaps, as one of the race suggested, these may be induced by too
much laughter, such exercise being strange to me and unwonted. This
remark contained a sneer, no doubt, for at the houses where I dine out
ebullitions of merriment would be considered bad form .
As Eastern grandees do not dance for themselves, so people in the
upper walks of society in England do not laugh for themselves. It
may be all very well for persons who have to earn their livings bylaughter
and jesting, as it may be well for an acrobat to stand on his head ; but
the possessor of ten thousand a year and upwards should maintain a
gravity of manner and stateliness of deportment commensurate to the
dignity fate has conferred upon him, and as a rule he does this.
To add that occasionally he overdoes it, is but to say that he is
human.
But I am wandering away from Fairy Water. Let me return to
the swans of that enchanted lake-to the Aylesbury ducks, which
turn up such plump breasts on the hospitable board, and, with a rare
generosity, fatten themselves in readiness for that season of the year
when green peas are most tender and succulent.
Much as I loved the place, I never longed to possess it. I was in
the position of the Frenchman, who having lost his wife, was asked if
he intended to marry a lady he had been in the constant habit of
visiting.
" Ma foi ! " he said, " where should I then spend my evenings ? "
And, in faith, had Fairy Water come down, where should I have
spent my holidays ?
As a guest I delighted in Fairy Water ; as a host I should have
grown to loathe the place.
It was well I thought so for I had always expected to step into
Captain Trevor's shoes.
He was that rare phenomenon, a sea monster-an ugly, illtempered, cross-grained brute, who bawled at the servants as if a
perpetual hurricane were blowing through the house, and who was as
much disliked by all his inferiors in station as his father, the Admiral,
had been beloved by those below him in rank.
Further, he was fifteen years older than myself, and had lived fast
and drank hard so long as gout, the only thing which ever obtained a
mastery over him, would permit.
It would not have astonished me any morning to hear he was dead ;
but to hear he was about to be married certammy proved a surprise.
He had always been civil to me. So far as he was capable of the

feeling, I think he had a liking for Staff-so he persisted in abbreviating my name ; and therefore though his news appeared astounding,
his request that I would be the best man on the occasion seemed
nothing extraordinary.
I consented; ordered a new suit of clothes, bought a wedding
present-the expense of which I secretly grudged ; and on the day
before that fixed for the wedding went down to Winchelsea, near which
cheerful town the lady, as he gave me to understand, resided.
There is a funny little inn at Winchelsea, the windows of which
overlook the principal, and I think only, square of the town, which
happens to be the churchyard likewise, and there Geoffrey and I took
up our quarters for the night.
Naturally I wished to know something about the bride elect, and
asked her name.
" Mary Ashwell, " he answered. " Her people, however, call her
Polly, and I daresay I shall do the same."
I thought this over for a moment. There was a friskiness about
the sobriquet which gave me an idea of an elderly young lady with a
red nose, a flat chest, a long neck, light eyes, and ringlets.
" She has a pot of money, no doubt ? " I suggested.
" Not a shilling. Her father was once comfortably off, I believe,
but he is as poor now as a church mouse."
" Oh, then she has a father "
" And a mother," he condescended to add.
" Is she young ? " I inquired, finding he did not seem inclined to
volunteer further information .
" Well, you couldn't call her old," he said, wincing, as it seemed
to me.
" Is she pretty ? "
" I dare say you would not think her so-I do," was his reply ; and
this time I distinctly saw a dull red colour appear through the brown
of his weather-beaten face, of which sign of emotion he seemed to be
conscious, for he put his hand to his forehead so as to hide the flush.
I confess I was puzzled. Evidently he was ashamed of his choice ;
and yet what could have induced him to make it ?
He was no longer young, it is true indeed, he was growing elderly ;
but " surely," I thought, " he might have found somebody willing to
marry him more suitable than a plain old maid, possessed of kitten-like
proclivities and not possessed of sixpence. "
I was not one half so much surprised to hear of the proposed
marriage as I was at his evident dislike to speak of the bride. Of all
the men I ever met, Geoffrey was the last I should have supposed likely
to be taken in by a woman; but that he had been taken in, it was
impossible to doubt, and I was confirmed in this impression when, in
answer to some leading question, he said,-
" You will see her to-morrow, and can thenjudge for yourself what
she is like. I am tired now, so do not torment me with questions,
Staff."
No pleasant dreams of Fairy Water visited my pillow that night.
I had visions of a mistress not unlike a cruet bottle as to shape, and
with mind and temper an even mixture of cayenne and vinegar.
" Stafford Trevor," I said, addressing myself as I stood next morning

brushing my hair, " you will have to look out a new place at which to
spend your holidays. No more cakes and ale at Fairy Water ; black
looks and scant courtesy are all you need expect when the new mistress
comes to her own;" and having arrived at this conclusion, I walked
into the sitting-room, feeling like a man who knows the worst and is
prepared for it.
Geoffrey himself was nervous and uneasy, I could see that. He ate
little breakfast, a sure sign with him of uneasiness of mind or sickness
of body ; and when he pushed away his cup he rose and paced the
room, his hands buried deep in his pockets .
It was quite a relief when at last he said we ought to be going.
I looked at my watch, and saw it was twenty-five minutes past
eleven, Greenwich time.
" They have a long way to drive, I suppose ? " I remarked.
" Two miles," he answered.
"Madame's get-up requires both leisure and thought," was my
mental comment as we took our hats and walked from the inn door to
the church porch.
I should not care to pass the fifteen minutes which followed over
again.
The clergyman was waiting, the clerk in readiness, the sextoness all
impatience, Geoffrey working himself up into such a state of mind that
although it was not a warm morning, and a pleasant breeze stirred the
ivy, the perspiration stood on his forehead, and he grew white and
red by turns.
"What time were they to be here ? " I asked .
" Half-past eleven ; her own hour, " he answered.
We waited a little longer ; then I looked at my watch again.
" Quarter to twelve," I said. " If they do not come soon "
He put his hand-a great strong hand it was too-over my mouth
with such force he actually drove me back against the wall.
" Don't say that, " he entreated, and his tone was so agitated I
should scarcely have recognized his voice. " Ah ! here they are," he
cried out next minute, as the hired carriages turned into the
square.
The first contained the bride, closely veiled, and her father and
mother ; the other two elderly spinsters, one of whom officiated as
bridesmaid.
I could not catch even a glimpse of the bride's face as she passed up
the aisle, holding down her head, and keeping her veil drawn in folds, as
if she wished to remain hidden.
There was a mystery, and I could not penetrate it. She was not
old ; the walk was that of a young person, and the hand from which her
bridesmaid drew the glove belonged most certainly to no lady of a
doubtful age. Her answers were almost inaudible, and she trembled so
violentlywhen it came to the ring ceremony that Geoffrey could scarcely
slip it on her finger.
" She is not old, " I decided, watching her as she knelt ; " I am afraid
she must be very ugly."
It was all over ; they were man and wife. Still keeping her veil
folded over her face, she went with Geoffrey into the vestry, we
following.

About this time it occurred to me we had somehow made a mistake,
and that instead of witnessing a marriage we had been assisting at a
funeral .
As a rule I know how to say the right thing in the right place,
but I did not then feel in the right place, and consequently I could not
say the right thing.
The churchyard, with a couple of gravediggers hard at work, would
have seemed to me a much more fitting locality at that moment, than the
vestry, with its limp curate, elderly bridesmaid, silent bride, and sulky
though triumphant bridegroom.
Still without lifting her veil, the bride, who had to ask, and did ask
in an almost inaudible whisper, what name she must sign, wrote " Mary
Ashwell," in a shaky, tremulous hand.
When she finished, her father, who had not conducted himself
through the ceremony with the same resolute fortitude as his wife, said,
with tears in his weak eyes and a suspicious twitching about his mouth :
" Polly, darling, kiss me kiss your poor old father." Then before
she could prevent it he threw back her veil and held her to his heart.
Shall I ever forget the sight of that face ?-ever forget the eyes,
heavy and swollen with weeping ; the cheeks white as death, worn and
grief-stained ; the expression of utter misery, such as I had never seen
in the countenance of a living being before-never anywhere save on the
canvas of some old master ?
But it was not the heavy eyes, or the white face, or the look of
anguish it bore, which caused me to forget where I was ; I forgot all
sense of propriety, all idea of fitness and decorum in a word, I forgot
myself, and exclaimed out loud-just as if I had been alone and not
in a church-
" Good God ! why, she is a child ! "
In a moment, as though I had uttered some form of incantation, a
change took place amongst the company.
With a look at me, which, to say the least of it, was not pleasant,
Geoffrey drew his wife's hand in his arm, and marched out of the vestry
with her, leaving us all to follow, or not, as we liked.
The curate turned his eyes up to the ceiling, as if he expected it
to fall in and crush one at least of the party. Out of his prayers I believe
he had never heard such an expression before ; the two ladies, spinsters,
were gazing fixedly on the floor ; Mrs. Ashwell was transfixing me with
looks like daggers ; Mr. Ashwell was in the aisle, sobbing into a white
handkerchief.
As for me, I was so stunned that I failed even to apologize for my
misdemeanour. I knew of course all these people were standing round,
and about, but I could see nothing, think of nothing, except my elderly
cousin and his child wife.
Old enough to be her father !-why, he might have been her grandfather!
To this hour I do not know how we got out of the church, and in
what form of words I took leave of the curate. I have no distinct
memory of anything after I saw the bride's face, till I found myself
sitting on the box beside the coachman, driving along a country road, and
✓ feeling like one who having beheld a vision is gradually and painfully
struggling back to consciousness and recollection.

CHAPTER III .

My Cousin's Will.
AFTER all, I had not to find another place in which to spend my holidays,
for Geoffrey condoned the offence of which I had been guilty, and, together with his wife, welcomed me to Fairy Water cordially as ever.
But Fairy Water was not now what it had once been. I could not
endure the place, yet I was perpetually going there. I alwaysfelt thankful to leave it, and yet when I was away a pleading face, a pair of soft
brown eyes, a meek, beseeching voice, seemed always dragging first my
thoughts and then myself thither.
She was such a mere child, and he such an uncultivated savage,
frantically in love with, and equally franticallyjealous of her. Itwas the
old story, not an uncommon one, in which the characters are a ruined
father, a rich and generous suitor, a worldly mother, a loving, yielding
child, willing to sacrifice her young life on the altar of duty.
She had never cared for any one ; that was the solitary consolation
I could find in the transaction. She had never seen a man to care for,
I fancy, so utterly secluded and nun-like had been her previous experience. She was innocent as an infant ; pure as one of the angels ;
sweet-natured, docile, truthful, loyal ; and I believe, after a time,
when a child was born, and she had something all her own to pet and
care for, and concentrate all her affections upon, the match -unequal
and unsuitable, horribly unsuitable as it was-might not have proved
altogether miserable, had any one been clever enough to lay the devil
of jealousy with which Geoffrey was possessed.
He could not bear her to have a look or a thought excepting for
himself. His affection for his children was weak in comparison to the
vehement and unreasoning attachment he bore his wife. She had loved
her father with a clinging devotion beautiful to behold, and so he
separated them-would not bid the old man to Fairy Water, or suffer
her to visit her former home. When Mr. Ashwell died, he was jealous
of her very grief. When she had a new baby, he grudged the caresses
she lavished upon it.
Poor Polly! poor little girl ! poor child-wife ! poor baby-mother !
How often has my heart ached for you with a sympathy I feared to
show !
But you knew I felt it, my dear ! You could tell I was your true
friend, and would have stood by you through good and evil, had any
advocacy of mine been likely to serve your cause.
Often and often I felt it hard to stand by silent, and see the spirit,
and the hope, and the joy crushed out of your young life by slow
degrees to see you growing old almost before you had done growing
tall ; but what could I do ?
He was your husband, you his wife ; and you have told me since,
my very silence gave you strength to bear the inevitable-taught you
how hopeless it was to struggle against that which was irrevocable.
I shall never forget one day in the earlier part of her married life,
when Mrs. Geoffrey Trevor came to me as I was sauntering along a
path through the strawberry-beds.
She was a pretty, dainty creature, I thought, as I watched her trip

ping along-dress a little uplifted above her small feet ; head held
erect, as if filled and balanced with a new idea.
" Mr. Stafford," she began-she was shy, at first, of calling me by
my Christian name ; and no wonder, for I must have been baptized
some five- and-twenty years before she was thought of, and had been
knocking about the world, and learning its wickedness, long ere she
crossed life's threshold-" Mr. Stafford, I want to ask you something
so much. You have known my husband longer, of course, than I have.
Tell me what I can do to make him trust me more."
She said it all in a breath, like a child who has learned a lessonconning it over and over till she knows it off by heart.
What a child she was ! what an unsuspecting, guileless creature !
Thank God, I never, not even for a moment, held a thought in my soul
about her I might not have held for a daughter of my own ; and, in his
blind and stupid way, I believe Geoffrey knew this .
Certainly, however, this appeal for which I was wholly unprepared
-staggered me. It took me, indeed, so much by surprise, that I stared
at her till she coloured to her temples. After a moment, her eyes
drooped, her cheeks paled, and she stood before me abashed and silent,
as though she had done something wrong.
Then I spoke.
" I do not know that you can do anything, Mrs. Trevor," I answered,
" unless you discover some way to make him less fond of you."
Then the blood flew up again into her face, and she lifted her eyes
to mine.
" Do you think he is very fond of me ? " she asked, touching unconsciously the strawberry-leaves with her foot, as she moved it restlessly to and fro.
"Yes," I said. " His love for you is the love of his life."
She did not say another word. She walked back-not briskly, as
she came, but slowly and thoughtfully.
A daughter of whom any man might have been proud-a sweet,
tender girl, already developing a woman's soul.
She never tried to make him less fond. With all her strength, I
believe, she tried to please him more, and do her duty better.
I watched her efforts. I saw how futile they were. The more
tender, gentle and patient she strove to be the more loveable he
learned her nature really was so in precise proportion did his jealousy
wax greater. He knew, as well as I knew, that while the sun rose and
set she never could love him. What he had hoped or expected when
he married her, Heaven alone knows ; but it is possible-since men in
love are unreasoning animals-he trusted eventually to win from her
something besides obedience and sweetness ; and, as time passed by,
and found her unchanged, save that she grew more still, more tranquil,
more submissive, I think his heart must occasionally have stopped
beating at the thought that some one might yet win her affection when
he was dead and forgotten.
After a couple of children had been born, he asked me if I would
object to my name being inserted as one of the executors of his will ?
" Mr. Henderson will act with you," he added.
Mr. Henderson was a very respectable solicitor ; and, having no
objection to being associated with him, I said so.

" I hope, however, " I went on, " you have done all that is right by
your wife ? "
" What do you mean ? " he asked.
" I mean that I hope you have made ample provision for her."
" I have left everything to her, " he replied, and I must say I felt surprise, though I did not evince any ; " everything except Fairy Water,
which, as you know, I cannot will ; unless she should marry again."
"And in that case," I suggested.
" She has nothing. I suppose you do not expect me to leave my
money for the benefit of another man ? "
"Well, no," I replied ; " I do not think I should be so philanthropic
myself; although I might for the sake of memory, just as a mere matter
of sentiment, leave a woman some trifle a year, settled on herself, of
course strictly."
" I will not do that," he answered, and the subject dropped.
Time went on ; they had been married eight years. Mrs. Trevor
called me Stafford and I called her Mary. Somehow, Polly had dropped
out of our recollections as it assuredly had out of her face, and there
were five children at Fairy Water and one in the churchyard, all
boys, all except the very last comer, to whom I stood godfather-to
whom, for her mother's sake, I presented the handsomest conventional
mug, knife, fork and spoon I could possibly afford, and which was called,
a graceful piece of thoughtfulness on the part of Mrs. Trevor, Isobel,
after my own dear mother.
How this young wife went through those eight years is to me a
puzzle even now. How she preserved her amiability, how she kept her
temper from souring-how she retained her timid, trembling, and yet
certain faith in all things holy could have been only, by reason of God's
great mercy to his weakest and most helpless children.
But there was a slow, gradual change in her which made my heart
ache to behold. She was as staid as a matron of forty. The sweet
laughter of a happy wife and mother never echoed through the rooms
at Fairy Water. She was grave even with her children. Young as she
was, she had lost the ability to play with them. Geoffrey had gained
his desire, and wedded a young wife whom he loved, pretty, faithful,
true, and yet he found no happiness in the years, whilst she-I have
told how she was affected by their passage, and can only guess the
anguish of soul each day they contained had brought with its dawn.
But a change was very near at hand. One night Geoffrey, always a
bad, reckless whip, managed to upset his dogcart, and in doing so
contrived, besides breaking his leg, to inflict serious internal injuries on
himself.
That was the beginning of the end. The leg knitted, the injuries
were patched up, but he could never hope to be the same man again.
He grew thin and worn, and month after month wasted away visibly.
At times also he suffered cruelly ; whatever was the matter with
him, and the doctors could only vaguely diagnose his disease, there
were hours when it seemed to fasten upon him tooth and nail, almost
gnawing the life out of that once robust, loud-voiced, strong limbed
boor. Under this discipline he grew, wonderful to relate, gentle.
In health one of the most discontented, restless, impatient mortals
that ever existed, in sickness and in pain he became a different being.

" Spite of his sufferings," said his wife, tears in her eyes at thought
of them, " we have never been so happy. Oh ! Stafford, if he had only
been like this always."
Two years after the accident a letter from Fairy Water told me the
end had come. It was the dead of the winter time, and I do not like
travelling in winter, or going into residence with a corpse, but I
started for the old place at once. The little woman, with her five
young children, all alone in the world but for me, would have need of
my presence.
I can see her now as she crossed the hall to meet and thank me for
coming. Her face was very pale, and thin, and sad, but peaceful.
" He had no pain at the last," she told me, as we passed into the
library together ; and then, holding her hand, I sat silent for a minute
-thinking, as we all must, at some period or another of the last
change, of the awful mystery.
All it was possible to do for her at this juncture I did, and when
the short days drew to a close, and we talked quietly by the firelight, she
always led the conversation to her late husband-she liked to speak of
him, I perceived-liked to tell me how, by almost imperceptible degrees,
he had softened and altered.
" At last," she said, on the evening before the funeral, and her voice
dropped and trembled a little as she spoke, " at last he told me how
much he regretted that we had not been so happy as we might have
been. He said, poor dear, it was all his fault ; he said he had distrusted
me once, and made his own life miserable in consequence ; and then he
would, spite of my entreaties, go on to talk about his will. It would
' show how I trust you,' those were his words, ' what full confidence
I place in Stafford and you.' "
At that point she broke down. I had not mixed with my species
for a considerable number of years without having had many such
utterances confided to me. For a week after his death a man is generally well spoken of, and I ought to have remembered this, and been on
my guard as to consequences accordingly ; but I was off guard, and,
I confess, Mrs. Trevor's grief for the departed, and her account of
Geoffrey's supposed repentance, touched me exceedingly.
As a rule, I wait to form my opinion of the regret of the survivors
and the real character of the deceased until the day after the funeral ;
but in this case, as has been stated, I was weak and premature, and
went to bed with a newly-developed liking and pity for the poor
gentleman who lay stiff and stark in unpleasant proximity to my own
bed-chamber.
" I wonder what his will is ? " I marvelled, as I put out my candle ;
and then a dreadful idea, a most shocking and horrible notion struck
me.

" If he has expressed a wish for me to marry his widow, what shall
I do ? "
What should I do, indeed ? I could not sleep for hours, so fearful
did I feel that in some mood of maudlin repentance, when his mind
was weakened with illness, he might have committed such a desire to
paper, and when at last I sank off into slumber it was only to dream I
was standing once again in Winchelsea Church, this time as an unwilling
bridegroom, with Geoffrey Trevor in his shroud officiating as clergyman,

and one of the elderly spinsters vowing as fast and hard, as she knew
how she would cling to me till death did us part.
I awoke in a cold perspiration, and though day had not yet broken
got up, dressed myself, went out for a walk, and on my return finished
my nap, rolled up in a rug on a sofa in the dining-room .
Funerals, like weddings, take place at too early an hour. Though
it was an immense relief to me to think Geoffrey was out of his own
house, I confess, as we drove back to Fairy Water, I wished his
departure had been arranged for a later period of the day.
I wondered what I could find to do until it was time to retire to
rest. I marvelled how long Mrs. Trevor would wish me to remain in the
house of mourning ; I speculated on the number of invitations which
must be by this time lying on my table in town, and through all there
was a curious under-current of thought as to what my own end would
be like ; where I should die, what I should die of, where I should be
buried, and who would follow me to the grave.
" Mr. Stafford"-it was Mr. Henderson who thus broke into my
reverie-" do you know whether your cousin left any other will than
that made some years since ? "
" He told Mrs. Trevor," I answered, " he had made a will which
would show how fully he trusted her. "
" Has she got that will ? "
" No ; at least I should think not. "
" Has she looked for it ? "
" Decidedly not, I should say."
" Have you ? "
" No, if I ever thought about the matter, I concluded you had the
will in your possession."
" I have not," he replied ; " and, what is more, I never drew out
any but the one which, against my most earnest advice, he executed.
I often urged upon him to reconsider the matter, but he always either
turned the subject or refused to do so."
" Then you think my cousin did not make a second will," I
suggested.
" I am afraid he did not."
" Is that, you hold, so very bad ? " I inquired.
" I think it so, " he replied.
" What is to be done ? " I asked .
" His papers had better be examined, to ascertain if he has left a
later will before that I hold is produced."
" There can be no objection to such a course," I said ; " will you
examine them ? "
" I am in the hands of yourself and Mrs. Trevor," he answered, and
we drove on in silence.
It was lucky for us that the widow had not the faintest idea
the usual course of procedure ordered a will to be read as soon as
possible after the man who made it had been got safely into the churchyard.
Though twenty-six, she remained to that hour as ignorant of worldly
affairs as she was when she had to ask what name she should sign in
the register at Winchelsea, and she accepted in simple good faith my
suggestion that she should give the keys of her late husband's desks,

drawers, boxes, and so forth, to Mr. Henderson, on whom the duty of
looking over his papers now devolved.
" I fancy he wanted something out of that old oak cabinet, which
stood near his bedside," she said, as she handed me the keys. "He
pointed and nodded to it several timesjust before-before he died, and
tried to speak, but he was not able. Perhaps Mr. Henderson may find
out what it was."
" We must look there for the will," I said, as the lawyer and I
ascended the staircase together.
He bowed gravely. He had formed his opinion, which the result of
our search justified. Geoffrey had made no second will. There was
no such document to be found.
All the letters and papers in the oak cabinet related to matters stale
as the deluge, with the exception, indeed, of some few notes from Geoffrey's young wife, and a lock of her hair tied with a thread of silver
twist. We found also a knot of riband and a few flowers pressed in
tissue paper. When we showed these to Mrs. Trevor she burst into tears.
" He wanted them buried with him," said Mr. Henderson to me,
sotto voce. " The desire is not uncommon. I assure you, Mr. Stafford,
elderly men are often more romantic than young ones."
" No doubt, you speak truly," I replied ; " nevertheless, I wish
sentiment, notwithstanding he had forgotten those relics, and executed
his will ."
" He did not wish to make another," said the lawyer ; " rely upon
that."
The worst of lawyers is, they are always telling one something one
is forced to believe, whether one likes to do so or not.
I was forced to believe, and, indeed, my long experience of his
amiable nature made that belief unpleasantly easy, that my cousin
Geoffrey had made no second will, and that the document which Mr.
Henderson described as containing some curious and stringent clauses
was the only keepsake he had left us.
" I will bring it over in a day or two," said Mr. Henderson, " and
read it quietly to you and Mrs. Trevor."
" Bring it to-morrow," I suggested, " and let us have done with the
matter. If medicine has to be swallowed, the sooner it is taken the
better."
" True,” he commented ; but there was a twinkle in his eye, and a
smile on his lips as he took his leave, which seemed to say, " I understand you, Mr. H. Stafford Trevor. You find Fairy Water dull ; you
are longing for the fleshpots of Egypt for the cucumbers of course,
leeks are not esteemed luxurious now as they were some four thousand
years back, which even in December grace the tables of those rich
enough to pay for them . "
There was a certain amount of truth in this unspoken sentence. I
had eaten too long out of the fleshpots to care very much for anything
they contain, but still I was tired of Fairy Water. The country in
summer, as a change from town, is delightful ; the country in winter is
something not delightful, beginning with a d also .
That night I slept with a quiet heart. I saw a prospect of returning to my beloved London. I had no fear of having to regard any last
wishes chronicled by the late owner of Fairy Water.

Dreamily, I wondered what Mr. Henderson meant by a bad will ;
but being too much tired to try to work out the problem, closed my
eyes, and left it for him to solve next day.
When I woke in the night I felt glad to remember I was not the
owner of Fairy Water, but that an extremely delicate child, sleeping in
a distant wing, would some day be master in it.
Unless, indeed, he died ; in which case the other youngsters were
ready to step into and wait for the vacant shoes.
I never liked Fairy Water so little as on the night following the
noon when we helped to lay Geoffrey Trevor under a great slab of
granite, there to lie quiet till the judgment day.
Men of my temperament generally strive to eschew assisting at
these unpleasant ceremonies, but I have always tried to do my duty,
however disagreeable it may be ; and really excepting a christening, I
know no ceremony so utterly distasteful to me as a funeral.
I have never shirked accompanying any dear brother, who had a
claim upon me, either of relationship or friendship, to the only home
where men can do no more harm to anybody. Nevertheless it is one
thing to perform a duty, and another to like performing it. There are
persons who take a positive pleasure in the black business, who do not
object to strolling through cemeteries and examining in ancient churchyards old tombs and inscriptions as false as those graven in our own
day. To me, however, the whole thing is objectionable, and the idea
of Geoffrey sleeping out in a damp piece of consecrated ground, with
rank grass waving around his last bed, made me shiver.
Still, as the ceremony had to be gone through, I was glad it was
over ; and when I rose the next morning I felt sufficiently reconciled to
my loss and composed in my mind, to consider how Mr. Geoffrey
Trevor's death would in the future affect my previous relations with
Fairy Water. Of course in my capacity as executor, I should have to
visit the place occasionally, but my knowledge of the world told me it
would not do, even for a man old enough to be the widow's father, to
continue free of the house now its master was dead .
True, he had told me she would lose her fortune if she married
again. Nevertheless, the children were certain to be well provided for,
and in the case of one, at all events, there would be a minority of
between eighteen and nineteen years.
For myself, of course, any remarks which might be made in a place
so utterly remote from the centre of civilization as Fairy Water, were
of no consequence; but it behoved me to be very careful as to what
might be said about Mary ; and I decided, as I had decided nearly ten
years previously, that I must find some other house in which to spend
my holidays, recruit my health, and eat my strawberries.
I had never seen Fairy Water look so utterly dreary as it did during
that forenoon when I stood watching the rain dripping into the lake, and
making the already sodden ground more sodden.
The sky looked as if it had never done anything but rain since the
second day of the world, and as if it never meant to do anything except
rain till the last day. The leafless forest trees waved their long bare
arms slowly to and fro, as though they were burdened with the weight
of some speechless agony. The swans looked dirty and draggled, the
ducks had collected together under the shelter of a clump of ever

greens, and were suggestive of utter misery. Mrs. Trevor was making
believe to execute some impossible piece of needlework ; the children,
as is the pleasing habit of children on wet days, were flattening their
unformed noses against the window panes, while their father, out in the
weather, could not tell whether the rain were raining, or the sun
shining.
After luncheon, Mr. Henderson arrived. Out of consideration for
my London habits, Geoffrey had always dined later on the occasion of my
visits to Fairy Water.
Ordinarily, I believe, the family partook of that meal with the
children at one o'clock.
In honour of the solicitor's visit, a fire had been lighted in the drawing-room, and thither we three repaired, leaving the heir, his two
brothers and his sister, to amuse themselves as they could.
Mrs. Trevor seated herself on a sofa drawn up beside the fire ; Mr.
Henderson took a chair at a little distance from her, and unfolding the
will, laid it solemnly on a table close to his hand.
I stood leaning against the mantelpiece ; a long course of after dinner
drawing-room experience having rendered standing a more natural
attitude to me than sitting.
" Shall I commence reading, Mrs. Trevor ? " inquired Mr. Henderson.
" If you please," she said, softly, and after the lawyer had cleared
his throat he began.
It was a long document, copiously interlarded with legal phrases,
which were plainly so much Greek to my unsophisticated cousin .
There was first a long preamble, setting forth the particulars of the
will under which Captain Trevor held Fairy Water, but which left him
no power in the devising of it. Then were enumerated the different
sources whence his income was derived ; then a statement that in the
year of grace 18 he married, at Winchelsea Church, Mary, only
surviving child of Justin Ashwell, Esq., and Rebecca his wife.
"A will made as much by client as by lawyer," was my mental
comment, while Mr. Henderson turned over folio after folio. "Ah !
now we are coming to the gist of the matter."
His eldest son, Geoffrey Bertrand, being heir to Fairy Water and
whatever monies might accrue from that property during his minority,
it was Captain Trevor's will that the monies derived from such and
such sources, or invested in such and such securities, should be equally
divided between such other children as might be born to him, always
excluding Geoffrey Bertrand or the son who in the event of the death
of Geoffrey Bertrand, might succeed to the estate called Fairy Water.
Subject, however, to an annuity of £300 per annum to his wife Mary,
after the youngest child attained the age of twenty-one, and to a yearly
allowance to the said Mary of £100 per annum for each child of herself
and the said Geoffrey Trevor, whom she might undertake to maintain
and educate in a manner satisfactory to the before-named executors,
viz. , Hercules Stafford Trevor, of London, Barrister-at- Law, and
Reuben Henderson, Attorney.
In the event of no child, except that son who might at anytime beheir
to FairyWater surviving, one-half the annuity mentioned was to be paid
at once to the said Mary, and it was his will that she should continue

to reside at Fairy Water, and that the furniture, not including, however,
plate and pictures, was to be at her order and disposal.
At this juncture Mr. Henderson paused.
" Come," I thought, " considering the testator was Geoffrey, the
will is not so bad an one ."
" Providing always," continued the lawyer, and then I found that
the sting of the document lay in its tail.
Mrs. Trevor was to be entitled to the sums of money of which
mentionhas been made only in the event of her remaining unmarried.
If she married, not merely was she to lose her annuity, and the
hundreds per annum to which she was entitled during the minority of
her children, but also her children. They were to be placed at such
schools as the executors might decide, and all intercourse with their
mother was to cease. Further, in the event of her second marriage,
she must leave Fairy Water.
There were other clauses, but I forget them ; other legacies,
but unimportant, including fifty guineas to Mr. Henderson and myself.
As I listened to that comprehensive sentence, which must prove, as I
knew, a sentence to Mrs. Trevor of perpetual widowhood, I glanced at
her for one moment stealthily, and saw the Parthian dart flung at her
almost, as it seemed, from eternity, had done its work.
If she grasped no other part of her husband's will, she did that
portion which, while contemplating the possibility of her meeting in
the future with some one she might wish to marry, virtually placed an
insuperable barrier in the way of her becoming his wife.
She did not utter a word, however. When, having finished the
reading of the will, Mr. Henderson asked if she understood its purport,
she said-
" I think so, " in that grave, repressed tone which of late years had
become habitual to her, but which I had heard less frequently than
formerly since my last arrival at Fairy Water.
" If there is anything you do not quite understand, I can explain it
to you hereafter."
" Thank you," she said. Then after an instant's pause, “ I suppose
you do not require me any longer."
Mr. Henderson, at these words, rose and bowed. As I opened the
door for her to pass out, she never once looked at me. She kept her
head resolutely bent down, as I remembered seeing it drooped on that
bright spring morning at Winchelsea.
Was that day present with her at the moment as it was with me,
I wondered, as I watched her slowly move across the hall and enter a
little room which she preferred to any other in the house.
" Mrs. Trevor takes it badly, I am afraid," said Mr. Henderson,
when I returned to my position near the fire. "Ah ! it is a cruel will."
" What a pity we cannot put it between the bars," I remarked,
looking longingly at the blazing coals.
Mr. Henderson seized the document as if he imagined I really had
some thoughts of disposing of it summarily.
" Geoffrey always was a brute," I went on, seeming not to notice
hisgesture, " and he appears to have been true to his character to
the last."
" Mrs. Trevor takes it worse than I expected she would do," said

my companion. " I should not have thought she was the sort of woman
to entertain the idea of marrying again, not, at all events, in the first
week of her widowhood ."
" She never did entertain an idea of the kind," I answered
resolutely.
" No doubt ; how could she ? Her husband never allowed her to
exchange half-a-dozen words with any man, except himself. "
There was something about this I did not like.
" I beg your pardon, Mr. Henderson," I said, with a little stiffness
fo manner, " I have exchanged many half-dozen words with her."
" Of course ! of course ! I meant also excepting you."
Although I had, and have, a perfect horror of any woman imagining
she has formed an attachment for me, I felt my anger rise at the tone
in which Mr. Henderson put the very idea of my being anybody in
such affairs aside.
I looked at the man, and a suspicion struck me that perhaps, had
Geoffrey's will been different, Mr. Henderson might have aspired to
marrying the widow. He was younger than I, and much better looking.
To Mrs. Trevor, his want of that je ne sais quoi, which produces a
freemasonry amongst persons accustomed to mix in good society, would
not be apparent.
Well, thank heaven, there was no necessity to vex myself about the
chance of such a mésalliance now . Some man there might be on earth
willing to give up her money for the sake of calling her wife, but she
would never give up her children.
I expressed this idea very openly to Mr. Henderson, who said, no
doubt I was right. At the same time he once more hinted his surprise
at the way in which Mrs. Trevor received the intelligence.
" Depend upon it," I said, " she is not vexed because she cannot
marry again. There is some other cause at the bottom of her
grief."
" Well, it has been a miserable business first and last," he remarked,
as he drew on his gloves, and buttoned up his coat, and drank off a
couple of glasses of Madeira preparatory to facing the weather. " I
have seen so much unhappiness resulting from unsuitable marriages,
Mr. Trevor, that, sooner than one of my girls should wed a man like
your late lamented cousin, I would put her in a convent or her coffin."
" You mean a hypothetical girl, I suppose, " was my reply. “ You
have not any of your own. "
" Haven't I ! " was his answer. " I have a round dozen of children,
one sort and another, some of them as tall as Mrs. Trevor."
" Why, I had no idea you were a married man," I exclaimed.
He looked at me for a minute, and then broke into a ringing laugh,
which he instantly suppressed.
" I beg ten thousand pardons. I forgot, I quite forgot. If Mrs.
Trevor unfortunately heard me, assure her I meant no disrespect," and
he was so earnest in this matter that he kept me at least a minute
hatless in a damp country air, begging me to believe he would not have
done it for the world-he intended no offence.
When at last I got rid of Mr. Henderson, I went to the door of
‫دو‬

the room I had seen Mrs. Trevor enter, and asked if I might come in.
"Yes," she answered, and she took her hands away from her face,

and greeted me with the same gentle smile which had been growing
more gentle ever since I first knew her.
" I do not think I deserved this," she began. " I do not wish to speak
ill of the dead, but I think this was a cruel insult to put upon me."
I ventured to suggest that probably her husband had looked upon
it in the light of a precaution.
" As if I was likely to marry again-as if -but there, I will not
speak of that-- Captain Trevor used to tell me women were not fit
to be trusted with anything. I am certain there is one thing with
which men cannot be trusted."
" And that is-- ?"
" A woman's happiness ."
Neither of us spoke for a few minutes ; then she broke the silence.
" I shall be sorry to-morrow for what I have said to you to-day ; but
I was hurt-I was shocked. When my boys grow up and see their
father's will, they cannot fail to wonder what manner of woman their
mother was in her youth that it was necessary to have such restrictions
in case she failed in her trust to them. And beyond all that," she went
on, " it was a revulsion. We had seemed so much closer together - he
had been so much kinder to me I seemed to have won his confidence
so completely-he appeared so thankful for and pleased with the little
things I was able to do to lighten his pain-he had told me so certainly
and truly, as I thought -not with a sneer as he might once have done
-I should find in his will how thoroughly he trusted me, that I feel I
cannot bear the reality of that cruel, cruel paper I heard read to-day.
I feel I cannot understand at all what he meant."
It was not my place to tell her I believed the late Captain Trevor
had, for purposes of his own, improvised the fiction she repeated to me
on the evening before his funeral ; so I said that no doubt he considered
he had showed his trust in her by leaving his children almost completely
to her care .
" For, of course, Henderson and I will not consider it necessary to
interfere with them," I finished.
" But what did he mean by showing the confidence he placed in
you ?" she inquired.
" It shows that one man places confidence in another when he asks
him to become his executor," I replied.
" You are trying to make the best of this to me," she said, " and I
shall be grateful to you hereafter for not making the worst, but I know
what you think of it all in your heart. Now, we will never talk of it
again."
We had, however, to talk of it again in years to come ; but that was
not her fault, poor girl, or mine by reason of any intention I had to
bring more trouble upon her.

CHAPTER IV .

I Strike a Bargain.
For the second time I found I had made a mistake about those straw.
berries. The little world -heavens ! what a diminutive world it was

round and about Fairy Water-accepted with a unanimity rare in even
smaller communities three facts-one, that Captain Trevor, having
treated his wife infamously while living, had treated her still worse
when dead ; another, that she being different from most people would
not feel the restrictions placed upon her as a woman of a different type
might ; the third, that it was a great comfort she had one male relation
-myself to wit-who, in her difficult position, could visit and advise her.
The little world previously referred to took me into its confidence
concerning these and many other subjects, and I accepted its opinions.
As for Mary, the idea that her husband's death should make any
difference in my visits to Fairy Water clearly never occurred to her.
She called me Stafford, and the boys Uncle Stafford, and the little
girl Godpa Stafford ; and if I had suggested taking up my home with
them all, I am confident she would have seen no impropriety in the
arrangement.
Altogether the visits I paid at Fairy Water after Geoffrey's death
were not unhappy ones. They would have been happier, but that the
eldest lad was developing symptoms which no one, not even the local
doctor, understood, and which certainly no one could like.
" The boy will be lame for life, if we do not try some different treatment, " I said to his mother, as we paced the lawn one day side-by-side.
" I wonder what course we ought to pursue. I think we must have
some first- rate doctor to see him ."
" Do anything you consider best so long as my darling is cured," she
said. " I never look at him without a feeling of self-reproach. My
own sinful fretting after I was first married was the cause of this. I
know that perfectly well. "
And Mrs. Trevor spoke so decidedly on the matter that I doubt
if the whole College of Physicians could have brought her to a different
opinion.
Not being one of that body I never tried. Beyond all things, she
was now a mother. Her whole soul, thoughts, interests, hopes were
bound up in her children, and if she liked to accuse herself of having
induced delicacy in the constitution of her first-born, why should I
deprive her of the pleasure.
" Mary," said I, and I stopped in my walk suddenly, " I have a notion .
I know a man. He is a very dear friend of mine-one of the few dear
friends I have in the world. He is also a clever surgeon-wonderfully
clever. Should you object to my asking him down to spend a fortnight
here ? He is ill himself, poor fellow, and wants a change to some quiet
place like this, and he would tell us what to do about Geoff--"
Before I knew where I was she had led me in an ecstasy of excitement into the library, put pen, ink, and paper before me, and commanded that I should write to my friend.
" Make haste," she said. " You will have just time to catch the
post," and she rang the bell. " Tell Robert," she added, while I
scribbled my note, " to come here directly. I want him to take a letter
to the office at once. Valentine Waldrum, Esq.," she proceeded, taking
up my note and reading the address. " What a weak pair of names,
Stafford . I am afraid he is not clever. I am indeed."
" He is one of the cleverest men I know," I said, with a little
pleasant severity of manner, at which she put her finger to her lip and

drew back a step or two and said " Hush-sh-sh ! " to an imaginary
audience.
Even at nine-and-twenty, or thereabouts, I could see now and then
in such ways and actions as these a spectre of the Polly Ashwell, at
whose death and burial I had assisted thirteen years before.
" I suppose he is very old as he is so clever ? " she said, after the
note was despatched.
" He is not at all old," I answered, at which intelligence she made a
moue of disappointment.
One of the oddest traits about her was a fancy for elderly gentlemen . Considering what her life had been with one of them, I could
not understand this, till in a moment of confidence she told me she felt
gauche with young ones, never having associated with them.
" Is his wife nice ?" she asked.
" He has no wife," I replied. " He never will have one ."
" Why not ? "
" His father died mad, and in consequence he considers it his duty
to remain single."
"Does his mother live with him ? ‫י‬
" No, she is dead too. She did not long survive her husband. "
" How sad. Did you know her ? "
" Yes, very well indeed. I knew her when she was no taller than
your little Isobel ; but I knew her best when she was ten years older
than you are now. "
" Were you attached to her ? " she asked, with that directness which
is as often a proof of want of knowledge of the world as of intimate
acquaintance with all its ways.
" If I ever loved a woman it was Val. Waldrum's mother, " I
answered ; " but make no mistake, Mary ; that she married another man
has caused no great disturbance in my life. When I began to love her
I was at an age when sentiment is paramount. She was to me just what
a favourite heroine might have appeared. She was my ideal love, and
for the sake of that romance in the first instance, and because afterwards I found her to be a woman, sweet, true, devoted, I liked her
son first for his mother's sake, and then for his own. I hope you will
be very amiable to him, my dear, for he is much to be pitied."
She took both my hands in hers and kissed first the right and
then the left.
"Do you suppose I should not be amiable to any friend of yours,"
she answered. " Am I a monster of ingratitude that I should forget
the kindness you have unceasingly showed to me."
She had her ways and her words, which never permitted me to forget, no, not for a moment, what she might have been under happier
auspices, what she might have developed had not Geoffrey decided to
celebrate the obsequies of everything which was young, cheerful, lighthearted, about her on the bridal morning. We did two things that
noon in Winchilsea, I decided. We buried the original Polly, and we
dragged a resuscitated Mary to the altar, and married her to a man old
enough to be her grandfather.
"My dear," I said, " you are not a monster of ingratitude, neither
am I. Nevertheless, if you could find something else to kiss than my
hands, I should feel obliged."

" You wretch," she said, and boxed my ears, or rather made believe
to do so.
I tried to understand, but utterly failed to do so, why on that
day, and for several days afterwards, Mrs. Trevor treated me like a person
who has just sustained some great loss, or experienced some serious
misfortune. Had my first love ascertained her real sentiments towards
me in the same hour in which I made my confession, instead of, wellit does not particularly matter how many years before-it would have
been impossible for Mary to evince a keener sympathy with my disappointment than she showed by a hundred little attentions, by a certain tone of her voice, by a pitying expression in her face.
I could have laughed at her intense simplicity, but that between me
and laughter there stood, at the moment, the spectre of that which
seems only beautiful to us when we can grasp it no more-youth .
I had been young and I was old, and yet a few words spoken
almost at random, raised the fair illusion from the grave of the past.
Around me were the flowers, and the waters, and the beauty of the
long ago ; above my head shone a sun, the glory of which had faded
many and many a year before ; in my ears sounded the voices of the
dead and gone, and there is something about phantoms such as these,
which chills the merriment, even of a man of the world.
Nevertheless, the form which Mary's sympathy took was not disagreeable to me in my last capacity.
Intuition teaches the sex many things wonderful to consider. Intuition taught her, that after forty, and sometimes before, men find in
creature comforts a marvellous solace for disappointed affections, and
therefore, when we sat down to dinner, I found my tastes had been
consulted even more scrupulously than was the case in general ; and
when dessert appeared, the wine she pressed me so much to try, turned
out to be taken from a bin that had been held so sacred in Geoffrey's
time, that I never recollect but once his asking any person to share a
bottle of the vintage.
That was on the day of his father's death. I happened to be in the
house at the time, and perhaps in honour of his new authority he produced some of this wonderful wine, saying, it would do us both good.
Afterwards thinking that what might be enough for one would not
be for two, he treated himself on high festivals to a bottle in private.
Those high festivals must have occurred frequently, judging from the
small quantity left.
" I am so glad I thought of it," said Mrs. Trevor, when I remonstrated with her, on the extravagance of decanting such wine for me. " I
cannot imagine what is the use of having things unless they are used."
Which article of faith she had learned, no doubt, from her father, who
went on using everything he had till there was nothing left.
When I told her Valentine Waldrum was one of the few dear friends I
had left in the world, I spoke the truth. One of the benefits attached
to my profession is that it acts as an almost complete deterrent
to personal dislikes ; on the other hand, it places bars in the way of
forming strong attachments. Dear friends being frequently a little
exigeant, diners out can scarcely run the risk of offending non-exigeant
friends, by making too many of them. I could not at all events, and the
few I did make I took care to keep, by letting none of my useful

acquaintances know, if I could help it, of their existence. Each rule
has, however, its exception, and Waldrum proved that to mine.
From the time he first came to London, I tried to get him into society,
but, unfortunately, I could not make him like society; then I tried to
get society to recognize his professional merits.
Always graceful, society expressed itself certain Waldrum's abilities were of the highest order, but at this point it stopped. When it
wanted an arm cut off, or any other remunerative operation performed,
it sent for some well-known man, even if he were half blind, half deaf,
half doting, instead of my protégé.
Do you think I quarrelled with society for this ; on the contrary, I
only set my wits to work to overcome its prejudices.
The only man whom I asked as a favour to put business in the way
of my young friend, was an old doctor who had grown grey in feeling
pulses, in pocketing guineas, and doing as little for his money as even
a fashionable physician was able to manage.
I took Valentine to call upon him, and the young fellow's good
sense, cleverness and modesty, impressed the ancient humbug favourably.
As we rose to take our leave, the latter asked Valentine where he
lived ? to which he replied he was trying to work up a small practice in
Islington.
"Where is Islington ? " said the doctor, as though he had never
heard of that suburb before.
When I explained its topography to him, and enlarged upon the
fact that at one time London physicians sent their consumptive patients
to die in its salubrious air, as they send them now-a-days for the same
purpose to Torquay, Madeira, and other such favourite resorts, he said he
had no doubt it must be a charming neighbourhood, and that my anecdotes were most interesting. Further, he observed, if I happened to be
passing in the course of a day or two, he should like to see me.
When I called, he rushed to the point at once. "A fine young
fellow, " he remarked, " something in him, should not wonder if he
makes his mark ; but, my dear sir, get him away from his present
quarters. How could I recommend a man who lives in a place of
which no one who is anybody ever heard. He ought to rent a house in
a good street, furnish it well, set up a carriage and pair, or at least a
well-appointed brougham. If he follow my advice he may earn a haudsome income ere long ; if he do not, he may make up his mind to
remain in ' Merrie Islington ' an unknown surgeon to the end of his
days."
" You are right, very probably," I replied.
" Right, to be sure I am right ! and you, who have been mixing in
society for a quarter of a century at least, know I am. It is all very
well for those who do not want to live by their fellows, to talk about
worth, and talent, and genius, and industry, and other nice qualities of
a similar description, but we who must get money out of the upper
ten thousand or else starve, comprehend that the aristocracy must be
humoured. And quite correct, too," he added, " if I paid a man a
guinea every time he looked at my tongue, I should expect him to find
out my especial weakness, and respect it."
That same evening I went to Islington and found my young friend
domiciled in a house which presented a front of a window and a hall

door, adorned with a brass plate, to one street, while round the corner
was another door, smaller than the first, adorned by a second and more
diminutive plate, on which was engraved, " Surgery."
One does not grow less sensitive to the value of external appearances as one gets older, and I confess it shocked me very greatly to
find Mrs. Waldrum's son making his professional debût in such a
locality.
I found him reading the last handbook of surgery, and writing his
own opinions on certain passages as he went on.
" Still on the mill, Val.," I remarked.
" Yes, " he said, laughing ; " there are some people on whom sentence of hard labour for life ' is passed the moment they enter the
world, and I am one of them."
" Well, we must see that you get something in return for your
labour," I answered ; and then I repeated all the words of wisdom
which had fallen from the lips of my friend, the ancient humbug, and
watched the effect they produced upon Mr. Waldrum.
He took the matter in a different spirit to that I expected. I
thought he would pooh-pooh the experience of his elders-break out
into invectives against the rottenness of a state of society which looked
to what a man seemed, instead of first asking what he was. I imagined
it quite possible he would tell me he preferred the poor to the rich,
that he asked for no other emolument out of his profession than the
power of alleviating pain, of benefiting the sufferings of his fellowcreatures, with much more to the same effect, uttered in the vehement
language with which inexperienced persons clothe their crude notions
until time has taught them both the fallacy of their ideas, and the folly
of expressing them.
Mr. Waldrum, however, disappointed my expectations in the most
agreeable manner. He waited quite patiently till I had finished,
seemingly listening to and weighing every word; then he looked
round his sitting-room with a most suggestive glance-a glance which
took in the six secondhand chairs, covered with horse-hair ; the sofa,
upholstered in a like cheerful and comfortable manner ; the pembroke
table, its deal top concealed by a tablecloth of washing damask, the
washing capabilities of which had, however, apparently never yet been
put to the test ; curtains, ditto, ditto ; carpet, neither bright nor new ;
ornaments on the chimney-piece to match.
When he had completed the survey, he knocked the ashes out of
his pipe, and commenced refilling it, with a smile.
" It is good advice," he said, " but like all good advice, impossible to
follow. I had trouble enough to gather sufficient money together to
buy this excellent practice and superior house of furniture ; how, therefore, shall I ever be able to move to the West End, and decorate my
rooms as West End rooms should be decorated, and purchase a
brougham and horse, and feed the latter, to say nothing of a man in
livery to open the door, and another in livery also, to drive me to the
dwellings of problematical patients who may require my services, or
who may not very possibly the latter."
For the time being I ignored the conclusion of his sentence, and
inquired-
" Why, when you were short of money, did you not come to me ? "

" Well, for one reason, because I am a queer fellow, and have a
fancy to be independent."
" Independence is an excellent virtue, in moderation," I replied.
" I wonder if you mean, now, by that remark, to imply what I heard
a lady say the other day, that people who begin with being extremely
independent, usually end by making eminently ungrateful beggars."
"A sweeping assertion," was my answer ; " but still no virtue ought
to be pushed to extremities."
" You did not ask me what my second reason was," he remarked.
" I shall be most happy to hear it, nevertheless," I said, politely.
" Well, the fact is, if I ever thought about the matter, I thought
you had no money to speak of. I knew you had a lot of friends, and
influence likely to prove useful, say to a young lady whose relatives
wanted her brought out and put in the way of making a good marriage,
but I never supposed you had a hundred pounds lying at your bankers
in your life."
" I do not suppose I ever had," I replied, humouring him.
" And that is the reason," he went on, " that I have liked to know
you. I felt you could not imagine I had any ulterior object in visiting
you. It was very good of you to get me invited to grand parties, and
affairs of that kind, and I am glad to understand, thanks to you, what
is going on inside one of the big houses in a fashionable quarter, when I
see the windows lighted up, and the carpet laid across the pavement,
and carriages driving up, and footmen lounging about ; but society and
I are not suited for each other, and therefore you cannot now think
when I say I like to know and talk to you, it is for anything else than
for your own sake, and the sake of one who understood you better than
I think you do yourself."
Really an extremely difficult sentence to answer, and as I dislike
difficulties, I did not attempt to answer it.
He had refilled and lighted his pipe by this time, and began
smoking vigorously. I walked to the window and made some observation about the quietness of the street.
" Yes, it is quiet enough," he agreed, " if that be an advantage ;
still even on that score I think I might have secured a more desirable
residence at a lower figure."
We were on ground now where I felt I could meet him.
" Val ., " I observed, " I have a fancy that when you bought this
excellent practice and superior house of furniture, you were deceived
by some one."
" I was sold," he said, doggedly ; whereupon I read him a small
lecture. Slang might suit fast young ladies and vulgar young men, I
informed my listener, but for any one who wished to succeed in life it
was inadmissible. I suggested that a perusal of Addison might improve his style ; that a study of Dr. Johnson would teach him the
capabilities of the English language ; that Swift would show him the
way to apply the axe of satire to everyday doings ; and how do you
suppose he met this. Really, I grieve to record his answer !
" Damn them all! " he said, " I have read and re-read till I wish no
man had ever written, in which case I must have gone out and spent
my strength in manual labour instead of vegetating in this cursed
hole !"

As a narrator I am bound to be accurate as to conversation ; as an
individual I must apologise for the vehement language of my friend.
It is as useless to argue with a man who is miserable as one who is
angry. Val. Waldrum I saw was miserable. He had, or he imagined
he had, which comes to very much the same thing, capabilities in him
for rising to eminence, were a chance given ; but no chance seemed
likely to present itself.
He had hoped from a small beginning to make a great ending, but
there are some professions in which small beginnings mean a struggle
from first to last, with no end worth speaking about, let a man fight as
long and as bravely as he will.
He had spent his small capital in buying a practice which was
evidently perfectly valueless, and though he had ample leisure for
thought and study, both seemed destined to produce but poor worldly
fruits, unless by a miracle he could be translated to some different
sphere.
I am not a person who, as a rule, jumps to conclusions very rapidly,
and I felt almost startled at the swiftness with which I formed the foregoing opinion.
" I suppose,” I began, " that ifby any means it was practicable to
follow the advice of our experienced friend, you would not object to
do so ?"
" Object !" he repeated, with a forced laugh, then went on, " I
should not object that is to say, if the thing could be done without
borrowing money or running in debt. I think a man must be a fool
who walks into - , " the reader will excuse my merely indicating the
place which this vehement young surgeon mentioned " with his eyes
open. Many a poor devil has, I dare say, done so in ignorance, but I !
have I not seen the evils of debt all my life ; am I not, through no fault
of my own, eating its bitter fruits now, and for all these reasons if
any one assured me I could earn five thousand a year by adopting such
and such a course, I would not go into debt to secure it. At the same
time I feel-do not think me vain-so certain that I have it in me to
make a name, that if I had enough money to stand the racket for
twelve months I would risk losing it in order to give myself a chance ;
but as I have not the money I must e'en content myself in this
charming house in this delightful locality, and try to work up a practice. I might sell the practice now I dare say, if I could make up my
mind to not
" Is takethe
in some unhappy
old place yourswretch
still ? "asI Iasked.
was taken
" I in
do myself."
not, of course,
mean the Grange, but the other property, where——"
He stopped me, wincing as if I had touched some unhealed wound.
"Yes, I get fifty pounds a year from the land. Of course, it is let
far below its value ; but we were glad to let it on any terms."
" Do you mean that the house is included in the fifty pounds ? " I
inquired.
" No one would take the house," he replied. " We had the greatest
difficulty to get any one to live in it, even as caretaker. The woman
who does so has the reputation of being a witch. ”
" Oh! " I said, and we sat silent for a minute. Then I asked-
" Suppose the house and grounds and farm were let at a fair rental,
how much ought the whole thing to produce ? "

" A hundred a year at the least," he answered ; " but then it would
cost a lot of money to put the house and grounds in order. I wish
I could afford to paint and repair it a little, for there is some talk of a
railway cutting a corner off the garden, and I might then ask for
handsome compensation."
" If a purchaser could be found, should you mind selling the
place ?"
" Not if I got anything like a price for it."
"What should you call a fair price ?"
" If a man offered me fifteen hundred pounds, he might have it tonight. But, there, what is the use of talking ? No one would have it
at any price. I did try to raise some money on it, and what do you
think was the highest amount offered on mortgage ? "
" Five hundred, perhaps, " I suggested.
" Two," he replied, " and I can't wonder at it. The land is impoverished, the fences broken down, the gates gone, the barns going
to wreck and ruin. If I only could forget," he went on, passionately,
" if the horror were ever likely to leave my mind, I should take the
land into my own hands, and see if I could not make the property of
some value once again. But I cannot-I cannot ; the very thought of
the place makes me feel not quite right myself. I shall not be able to
sleep to-night after talking about it."
This was a view of the question onwhich I felt no desire to enlarge.
Not from any one had I ever been able to hear a succinct account of
the circumstances which preceded the death of Mr. Waldrum, senior.
For years before the Waldrums moved from the Grange to Crow Hall,
the latter place had the reputation of being haunted, and all I could
elicit from Valentine on the subject of his father's mania was that he
began to see things " and to talk strangely.
" There was a garden at the back of the house," the young man
told me, and one day, as he was sauntering along the side walk, he
suddenly stopped, and declared he saw a woman looking out of the
window of a room where no living woman was . To all appearance, up
to that time he was as sensible as you are," continued his son ; "but
after that he got worse and worse till the end."
That there was something more in the affair than I had ever heard,
I felt satisfied ; but curiosity is not my besetting sin, and I consequently accepted his version as complete, without cross-questioning
him about the matter.
The most singular thing to me in the whole business seemed that
Mrs. Waldrum could not be induced to speak on the subject at all. If
the place were ever mentioned in her presence, she was at once seized
with a nervous shuddering that she appeared powerless to control.
Valentine accountedfor this by stating it was she who had been instrumental in inducing his father to take up his residence at Crow Hall,
and that she reproached herself for having done so.
" As if the disease would not have developed itself sooner or later
wherever he had been," said the young man, taking a strictly medical
view of the case.
Of course I could form no opinion about it ; I could only believe
that, from some cause or other, Mr. Waldrum had died raving mad, and
that the subject was too painful a one for son or mother to discuss.

Crow Hall was the place of which I had been talking to return to
Islington and business.
" Val.," said I, " suppose I could sell that delightful residence for
you might I reckon on a commission ?"
" That you might," he replied. " I tell you what, if, amongst your
friends, you know any eccentric gentleman who wants a haunted house,
and is willing to give fifteen hundred pounds for it and the land
attached and to anybody with money the place is honestly worth
every penny I have named-you shall have two hundred out of it."
" Is it a bargain ? " I asked, holding out my hand.
" Yes," he replied, wringing it in a manner which caused me to
remonstrate, and well-to exclaim, " only, the man, whoever he may
prove, must be told there is a story attached to the place."
" Of course," I agreed. " And now, you had better give me a letter
to the witch, instructing her to allow me or any friend to view the
premises . I'must see the house before I can talk about it, you
know."
" If you do not mind sleeping there for one night," he said,
hesitating, " you could do so. I have always told her to keep a room
ready for me, though I have never been able to summon up sufficient
courage to cross its threshold since the day we left. "
" I will see about that, " I answered, as I took the letter ; " and now
continue to work up this practice till you hear from me Crow Hall
is-sold."

CHAPTER V.

The Legend of Crow Hall.
THE intelligent reader, no doubt, clearly understands that I meant to
buy Crow Hall myself. I calculated the cost mentally whilst I sat
in the apartment, already- to quote the house-agency lists-" fully
described on page twenty-nine. "
I am one of those people who may be described as eminently nonspeculative. To me promoters post their circulars in vain ; for me the
prospectuses of new companies have no charm ; banks place their
dividends before my eyes without dazzling those organs in the least ;
whilst in mines I have no faith at all .
Naturally, then, you will wish to know in what I have faith ? A
question easily answered. I believe in Ground Rents ; I respect the
Three per Cents ; and, to a certain extent, I have a liking for land.
Not to enlarge, however, on opinions which have little or nothing to do
with the progress of this story, I did a little sum in mental arithmetic
whilst Valentine Waldrum was talking. Given that fifteen hundred
pounds in the Three per Cents returned me forty-five pounds a-year, I
certainly could not lose much money supposing Crow Hall only produced forty.
But I intended, if I purchased the place, to make it produce a
great deal more.
There are some persons who can make money, and there are others
who can take care of it ; but the two qualities are rarely combined.
My speciality is taking care of money-getting full value for it in some

shape or other. It is not easy to delude me into making a bad bargain,
and I was certainly not likely to permit Crow Hall to depreciate in the
market if I became its possessor.
Before, however, I moved further in the matter, I meant to see the
place, so I wrote a letter to the woman in charge, informing her I
was a friend of Mr. Waldrum's, who had kindly sanctioned my making
use of his house for a few days ; and that I should feel obliged by her
having a bed in readiness for me by such a date.
When that date came, I started for Essex, in which county Crow
Hall was situated.
From Valentine I had received minute directions as to its whereabouts.
I was to go a certain distance by rail, and then a stage by coach ;
and after that I might post six miles by road, or walk through lanes
and across fields (of which he drew me an accurate plan), which
lessened the distance by one-third, to Crow Hall .
I have always been a tolerable pedestrian. In one's own interest,
as well as that of one's friends, it is desirable to follow such rules as
conduce to the maintenance of health ; and therefore, even when dining
out most constantly, the heights of Hampstead, the lanes round Willesden, the banks of the Thames, the windings of the Brent, have found
me a frequent visitor.
In the country I always walk, and therefore, of course, I elected to
go by the lanes and fields to Crow Hall .
It was late in the afternoon of an autumn day when I found myself
standing at the entrance-pillars-gate there was none of that ancient
house ; and I am bound to state that the eye of man never beheld a
picture of more utter desolation than it presented.
A long, straight avenue, overgrown with weeds, led to a sort of
semicircle enclosed with hedges of ivy, privet, and thorn, outside of
which the drive bore away to the right, and terminated apparently in
the farm-yard.
To the left of the avenue lay a lawn, on which the grass had seeded
and was now rotting ; beyond this a belt of trees, chiefly pine ; and
beyond that the lake of the dismal swamp, which had furnished Crow
Hall with no less than two tragedies .
Not a place, certainly, to tempt a capitalist possessed of an
imaginative mind ; but then no one was ever less imaginative than
myself.
Imerely beheld so much ground which had for years been kept in
extremely bad order; a rather good approach ; and an old-fashioned
two-storey red brick house, with a high pitched roof, and dormer windows projecting from it.
" There are capabilities about the place, certainly," I decided, as I
looked at Valentine's inheritance with critical eyes ; " but the first
thing to do will be to alter its character. I shall cut down those firtrees ; drain the lake ; fill it up ; lay the whole front down in grass ;
and plant clumps of evergreens here and there to break the monotony
-hollies and yews with their red berries for the winter ; laurestinas for
the spring ; Portuguese laurels for the summer ; gorse for the autumn ;
and variegated laurels, the evergreen oak, and Arbor vitæ for all the year."
Man proposes ! I fully determined to perfect all the plans above

R. CALDECOTT, DEL . EDMUND EVANS, SC,

enumerated, and many others beside. It pleases me now to remember
I did not carry out one of them.
When I reached the enclosure previously mentioned, I paused
again, and decided to grub up the hedges surrounding it. What to
do with the front at that time ornamented by a garden wilder than
any wilderness, which had been laid out originally in the Dutch style,
and still presented some traces of the prim, curiously-shaped flowerbeds, and rank box-edgings-I had not time to decide ; for, before I
had quite compassed the design of this curious parterre, the front door
grated on its hinges,
ugly enough andtoa woman
to answer (who was description)
Mr. Waldrum's certainly oldinquired
enough ifandI
was Mr. Trevor ?
For some unexplained reason, she called me " Mr. Treevor." It is
a peculiarity of the lower classes in England that they either cannot or
will not pronounce a surname properly.
Being, of course, entirely ignorant of the cause of my visit, and
having her own reasons for wishing to propitiate her employer, the old
creature had done, and did do, her best to make me comfortable .
She made me tea ; she toasted bread for my benefit ; she fried
ham and poached eggs ; and, I doubt not, did ample justice to the
reversionary interest in the repast which fell to her share.
It had been a lowering afternoon, and the clouds now seemed drawing up for a wet evening and night ; so I decided to defer my tour
round the premises till the next day, and, drawing up a chair to the fire
blazing on the hearth, drew out a book, and began to read.
Towards eight o'clock, the woman who was, I afterwards discovered, in the habit of going to bed at most proper and most unwitch-like hours-namely, seven in summer and six in winter-tapped
at the door to know if I should like to see my room.
" It is well aired, sir," she took care to assure me. " I always
keep it aired in case Mr. Valentine, poor dear, should come back ;
and the sheets have had a good sight of the fire ; and the bed was
before it all day yesterday. I hope you will sleep sound, that I do,
sir. You are sure there is nothing more I can bring you ? Then
I'll wish you ' Good night, sir. " And she actually went out and shut
the door, as if she never expected to see me open it and walk downstairs after her.
Great is the influence of earnest conviction. So satisfied was the
woman that I meant to go to bed, that I actually did so; and lay
watching the blazing fire, and the flickering shadows it threw on the
wall, till the first died out, and the latter, missing their playfellow,
fled away into the darkness.
At the same time in London I should probably have been saying,
" Sherry," in answer to some liveried murderer of the English language who had just asked, " Ock or sherry, sir ? " and yet at Crow
Hall, only forty miles off, I was, notwithstanding the fact that I had
partaken of no soup, no fish, no entrées, no joints, no pudding, no game,
no gruyère, no fruit, and most particularly, no wine-lying contentedly
in bed, with the sheet drawn up under my chin, thinking what a very
singular thing life is, and what very wonderful, though somewhat
monotonous, patterns the kaleidoscope of existence presents for our
inspection.

It is needless to say I did not fall asleep for hours. The fire had
died out, and the shadows were all hidden away for the night ere slumber condescended to visit my pillow ; and when at length I did close
my eyes, and forgetting reality, wandered away into the silent dreamland, I found wakefulness perpetually calling me back to discuss with
it some utterly unimportant event.
And now I am about to state a singular fact.
I never awoke that night, or any other night I spent in the house, with
a feeling of being alone.
I have no theory on the subject. I am quite unable to form any
just opinion about it. I can only repeat that, sleeping-heavily sleeping, as I always seemed to be when something dragged me back to
consciousness, I always had the sensation of some one moving away
from the side of my bed.
So strong did this conviction become at last, that, rising, I struck a
light, examined the bolt of the door, looked in the cupboards, and in
every conceivable place where any person or thing could be hidden.
" Pshaw ! " I thought ; " it is the tea and the strange room."
Shall we say it was the tea and the strange room ? Yes-very well
-then be it so. I have no wish to argue the point. I only desire to
get on with my story, and back into daylight once more.
Next morning, the old woman hoped I rested well, with a look in
her face which seemed to express she expected me to say, No.
" Admirably," I told her ; which reply she received with a look of
mingled disbelief and disappointment.
After breakfast at which meal, more tea, more toast, more ham,
and more eggs made their appearance-I went out to view my future
property, and found the account Valentine had given of its dilapidated
condition by no means exaggerated.
His tenant, an individual of eccentric habits, I found loading
manure into a cart, whilst his man stood by the horse's head .
When I had ingratiated myself with him by the offer of a trifle
pour boire, which he was not above taking, he informed me, evidently
imagining I was a spy sent down by Valentine, that the land was so
poor he thought he couldn't hold it much longer ; in fact, he had only
paid rent so far out of regard to Mr. Waldrum.
" The garden," he added, " is running wild like ; the seeds blow into
the land, and fill it choke up with weeds. If Mr. Waldrum would throw
the gardens in, he wouldn't mind trying it a bit longer, he wouldn't. Did
Ithink I should see Mr.Waldrum soon ? Yes ; then perhaps I wouldn't
mind telling him, with Mr. Dogset's dooty, that if the garden was
throwed in, he would keep them clear of weeds for the fruit."
I replied that I should be most happy to deliver his message.
"And you can tell him how shocking poor the land is ?"
" Yes, that I certainly can."
" And you won't forget about the garden and the weeds ? "
" No ; I will tell him all. But don't you think, Mr. Dogset," I
added, " you could make some use of the house as well ? "
" No, sir, that I couldn't," replied Mr. Dogset ; and he pulled
down his shirt-sleeves, and slipped on his coat, and pulled an old straw
hat low over his eyes, and gave me one defiant glance ere saying
" Mornin'," and turning on his heel.

Clearly, there was some very unpleasant story mixed up with Crow
Hall ; about that part of the business Mr. Dogset was genuine.
When I re-entered the house, I penetrated to Mrs. Paul's domain.
Paul was the name of the witch, which struck me with a sense of
unfitness .
She had selected for her own living apartment a front kitchen,
the most comfortable room I had yet beheld in Crow Hall. It looked
out on a little grass-plot, which Mrs. Paul informed me she kept
clipped with a pair of garden shears. Beyond this was a privet hedge,
which likewise presented a good appearance ; and in the broad windowseats the old lady had a goodly collection of geraniums, fuchsias, and
musk. Apparently, also, she was not unskilled in the use of a whitewash brush, since the ceiling looked clean and newly done up ; and
the jambs of the fire-place had received a coat at some not remote
period.
In a cage hung near one of the windows a bullfinch was singing
away to its heart's content, whilst on the hearth a black cat with white
paws and a very white shirt-front sat gravely watching the operations
of his mistress, who was engaged in singeing a fowl I had seen sacrificed
an hour before, and off which I dined two hours later.
A man in town selects what he shall eat ; a man in the country has
to be thankful for anything he can get.
" May I come in, Mrs. Paul ? " I asked.
" And welcome, sir ; but you must excuse the place being a bit
through other. ”
I replied, and truly, that I thought the place looked very clean and
nice indeed. I could not have said as much for its occupant, but then
happily she had not considered it necessary to apologise for her own
dilapidated appearance.
" Do you not find it dull here, living all by yourself, " I inquired.
" No, sir ; I did at first, but I have got used to it. A lone woman
must content herself to be a bit dull at times, or else to put up with all
sorts of people. I have always tried to keep myself to myself, and
folks hate a body that strives to do that. No, it is not particular
lonesome, here, unless indeed in the long winter nights and days, when
the snow is on the ground. I do feel a bit bad then, sir ; but, law ! I
think how much better it is than the work'us, and I thank God I was
not afraid to come here when Mrs. Waldrum gave me the chance."
" As a rule people were afraid, I suppose."
" You may say that, sir. Before Mrs. Waldrum left she could not
get a servant for love or money to stay a night in the house. I did not
know how she was situated, or I would have come to her sooner, for
many a half-a-crown, and many a quarter of tea, and many a pound of
sugar she has brought down with her own hands when I lived on the
other side Latchford Common ; and it would have been a wonderful
ghost could have frightened me away from her when she was in need of
help. At last I did happen to hear, and walked over.
"" Is there anything Betty can do ? ' I asked, and then she broke
out crying.
""Would you be afraid to stay in the house and take care of it after
all that has happened ? ' she sobbed. ' I can find nobody to take care
of it, and if I cannot get away soon I shall go mad myself.'

" Then I helped her pack up, and she sent for a fly and drove off' ,
and I said to her-
"" Make your mind easy, missus, I will take care of everything till
you come back.'
" But she never did come back. They took away a little of the
furniture, and they sold the rest, except what you see is left ; and Mr.
Valentine, he seems to hate the place worse than his mother did, and
what will be the end of it, God knows. I only hope I shan't have to
shift out from the place till I am carried out feet foremost. ”
" The house has been haunted for a long time," I suggested.
" So it is always said, sir," she replied.
Meanwhile, I should observe, the fowl, in a limp and dejected
attitude, was lying between us on the table. I was ensconced on the
dresser, and Mrs. Paul, at my earnest entreaty, was seated on a rushbottomed chair.
" Do you think it is haunted ? " I asked.
" I know nothing about the matter, sir. I have lived in the new
part ever since I came here."
" This is the new part ? "
" Yes, sir," and she rose as if about to recommence her work.
" Mrs. Paul," I began, " to be perfectly frank, it is a matter of
importance to me to know exactly what story is connected with this
house. I do not want to take up your time without paying for it, but
if you cau spare me half-an-hour, I-shall be much obliged."
I held out five shillings to her, as I spoke, at which she looked
wistfully.
" I do not think, sir," she said, " Mr. Valentine would like the
thing talked about." 66
" But, my good friend," I remonstrated, every one has talked
about it. Every person speaks of the house as a haunted house, and,
even by your showing, shuns it like a pestilence."
" Besides," she went on, ignoring my last remark, " I know nothing
but what I have been told, just hearsay-a parcel of idle stories. I
might have been frightened enough if I had believed one-half the
neighbours say."
" If you do not believe what they say, why need you object to
repeat those idle stories ? "
" I did not say, sir, I exactly disbelieved. I know nothing about
ghosts and such like, and I want to know nothing. I have never seen
worse than myself in the house since I came to it, nor heard anything
except the whistling of the wind, or the creaking of a broken branch,
or the hoot of an owl. "
"But what happened in the first instance to give the place such a
bad name ? " I persisted. " When, for instance, was the man found
dead, in that dismal-looking piece of water in the front ? "
" I would rather say nothing about it, sir. " And Mrs. Paul took
up the fowl and a sharp knife, and looked as if she was going to disembowel the animal before my very eyes.
" As you please," I said, taking up my hat, " I suppose there is
some one in the parish can tell me all I want to know."
" Oh ! sir, if you must know it, I may as well speak as another."
This remark had reference clearly to the crown piece, and I recog

nized the fact by placing it on the table. " But I think you had
better not ask me to say more as long as you are sleeping in the
house."
For a moment there came over me a strange, creeping feeling of
chilliness. It was as if on a warm summer's day an icy hand had been
passed suddenly, though slowly, down my spine. Never before had I
quite understood to what an extent the force of imagination is capable
of carrying one.
I did not hesitate, however, for one-half the time it has required to
write the foregoing sentence. Before I ever entered the house, I had
formed a theory concerning its care-taker, and I felt, quite satisfied that,
notwithstanding her assumed reticence and apparent reluctance to
speak about the phantom residents in Crow Hall, she desired to
encourage a belief in their existence.
Of course, it was to her interest that the place should remain unlet,
and although she spoke as though she had, out of gratitude, conferred
upon Mrs. Waldrum the obligation of taking up her abode in extremely
comfortable quarters, still I could not be blind to the fact that having
no rent to pay, having the run of the neglected gardens, having the use
of an orchard where her fowls could almost pick up their own living,
having likewise as much wood for the gathering and chopping as she
could well burn, not to mention a gift at Christmas and Easter from
Mr. Waldrum, was altogether a good thing for Mrs. Paul.
" Thank you," I said, in answer to her last remark, " but I should
prefer to hear the story now. I am not at all afraid of its disturbing my
rest."
The witch sighed-in justice I ought here perhaps to state that on
one shelf of the dresser I had ere this time espied a Bible, a tattered
hymn-book, and a few tracts-shook her head mournfully, turned up
her eyes with an expression which seemed to mean-
"A wilful man must have his way, no matter how bad that way may
be for him ; " and said-
" I have never seen anything myself, sir, you must remember."
" My dear soul," I observed, " you have told me that several times
already ; and as I have no reason to suppose you are telling me a falsehood, there is not any necessity for you to repeat it again. Somebody
I suppose must have seen something."
" Well, yes, sir ; the housekeeper who lived here with old Mr.
Bragshaw told me herself, that one day when he had gone to Chelmsford, and she was quite alone in the house, she was scrubbing the stairs,
when all at once she heard a rustling above her, and looking up, she
saw a lady coming down. She was so astonished she stood on one side
to let her pass, and it was not till the figure vanished ' seemingto
melt into air ' those were her very words, that she knew it must be
' the foreigner. "
" What foreigner ? " I asked.
" The story goes, sir, and is, I believe, quite true, that a couple of
hundred years ago this was an old manor-house, where in the time of
the troubles, Catholic gentry used to be hidden till they could get safe
off to France and other far away places ; and they do say that when
old Madam Waldrum lived here, this was like a dower dwelling for the
widows of the family-priests and soldiers, and all sorts of people were

concealed, one and two at once, and that no one knew the secret of
where they put them, except madam and her old butler.
"At her death she left him a good bit of money, and her son leased
him the house and farm, and he turned the house into an inn, and
called it ' The Black Crow,' and made a mint of gold ; not out of
tavern keeping, people said, but by smuggling.
" To this day it is thought there are passages underground that lead
away to other houses accessible to the sea and the river, though the
secret of them died with that man who was found drowned.
" Well, the old butler died, but his son and his grandson and his
great-grandson held the place after him, and kept it still on as an inn.
The road ran right up to and past it then, instead of turning off as it
does now ; and instead of a lawn there was a great strip of common
land, and there were larger trees and thicker ; almost a wood indeed
growing round the water.
" Each landlord made money in the place, but all were not careful of
it alike, and at last there came one who wasted his substance as fast as
he made it by consorting with a lot of wild young men, by betting
at races, laying guineas by the handful down at cockfights, and such like.
"About this time old Squire Waldrum, the old squire, lay a dying,
and as he could leave the property just how he liked, and as the
younger son had got an inkling of his eldest brother having a wife and
child abroad, what does he do, but post off to bring her to England, so
as to get his father to leave the estate to him instead of to the son who
had married a woman who was two things the old squire couldn't abear
-a foreigner and a Papist.
" By some means he did induce her to come to England with him ;
the child, as I have heard is the fashion in those parts, was out at nurse
away from his mother, and she came alone. They had such a frightful
passage she was forced to leave her maid sick at the port where they
landed, and it was such a night of wind and rain when they got so far
as this on their road, that he was fain to seek shelter for the night for
himself and the lady at ' The Black Crow. '
" Theyhad supper together, and the landlord himself waited on them.
His wife was dead, but he had a niece who looked after the house, and
she often spoke afterwards of the wonderful beauty and value of the
rings and other jewels the lady wore.
" They were all set with precious stones-diamonds, I think some
one told me. ' She had more, too, with her,' she said to her brother-inlaw. The niece heard her speak the words.
"" My dear Filipe,' she had a queer foreign tongue, I am given to
understand, had usage of being often out of moneys. Since he last
left me, I have received much value from an aunt who had great jewels.
He need have want no more . '
" At which Mr. Francis laughed, perhaps because he was glad to
think if his brother did lose ' The Grange,' he would not be a beggar ;
perhaps for another reason ; no one can know anything about it for
certain till the judgment day."
Here Mrs. Paul stopped short, as if she never meant to go on
again.
" Waiving the day of judgment for the present, will you kindly
proceed with your narrative," I suggested.

Mrs. Paul looked at me. Though she bore the reputation of being
a witch, I ascertained subsequently her proclivities were methodistical,
and that she refrained from public worship, not merely because of her
scanty wardrobe, but also because there was no church in the neighbourhood of the doctrines which she affected.
Whatever her thoughts about me may have been, and I feel satisfied
they were not complimentary, she resumed her story.
" Next morning, when they went to call the lady, she was nowhere
to be found, neither was the landlord. Mr. Francis behaved like a
madman ; he sent out people to scour the country, he went to the
magistrates, he rode home to The Grange, and tried to make the squire
understand his eldest son was married, and that to a foreigner and a
Papist ; but the old man was nearly gone and wandering, and only
said, ' Good boy, good boy,' before he died.
" Three days after, the landlord's body was found floating on the
piece of water. The men who rowed out to bring it to land struck the
boat on a sunken root, and had some work to save themselves, but the
body was after a time recovered.
" Of the lady from that hour to this nothing has been heard. She
was Mr. Val.'s great-grandmother, and since her disappearance nothing
has prospered with the family.
" Mr. Francis was arrested, but as nothing could be proved against
him, he was set at liberty, and went to foreign parts, where he died,
protesting to the last, as I have heard tell, that in Mrs. Philip Waldrum's disappearance he had neither act nor part.
" Mr. Philip shut himself up at The Grange, and led the life of a
hermit till his death, when the child of the foreign lady, Louis, I think
he was called, succeeded to the property.
" He lived much in London and abroad, married a lady of fashion
with no money and little sense, and left The Grange in debt, as I have
heard tell, to its very gates to Mr. Val.'s father.
" While those things were going on at The Grange, some one took
' The Black Crow ' and turned it back again to a private dwellinghouse. But it often lay empty ; people said it was haunted ; people
could not rest in the old rooms. It was not that they saw anything,
or that they heard anything ; but they felt as if somebody was there.
" I dare say you know what I mean, sir ; I would not need to turn
my head or hear a footfall, but still I should know if anybody came
into this kitchen."
" I can quite understand that, " I agreed, remembering my experience of the previous night.
" To people with plenty to do and think about," proceeded Mrs.
Paul, sententiously, " that did not signify much, so long as they kept
well ; but after a while no one kept well in the place. Some laid it to
the water, and some to the drainage, and some to the air, and some to
the lake ; but none spoke up, though everybody suspected, the place
lost its tenants that were able to pay rent because they found somebody who paid no rent at all had been in possession before they were
thought of.
" The man that lived the longest here was a foreigner. He could
scarcely speak any English when he came to the place, and he could
speak little more when he went away, but he drank a great deal of sour

stuff they make in his country, stronger than brandy it is said, smelling
of herbs . He gave me a drop of it once, and I felt strange for a week
after. He came over on account of something he had done against his
own'king, Mrs. Waldrum told me, but the people round about would
have it he was some friend to the lady Mr. Philip had married, and the
place was looked on worse than ever after that ; my notion is, when he
had taken some of his stuff he would not have seen a dozen ghosts if
they had been walking backwards and forwards through the room."
" And when he left, or died," I suggested.
" The place stood empty again, till the trouble came at The Grange,
and then nothing would content Mrs. Waldrum but to come here and
see if they could not live off the farm. Ah ! she was a good lady, she
was, and clever, but she made a mistake about that. She had a high
spirit of her own, and laughed at the idea of ghosts and such like.
" " They rise out of the pond,' she said, ' and we will drain it.'
" They tried, but they could not drain it. More was the pity."
Suddenly Mrs. Paul discontinued the " Chronicles of Crow Hall. "
" You must excuse my tongue, sir," she said, " it has run the last
hour away, and the fowl for your dinner is not trussed yet."
" So I see," I answered, and walked discreetly out of the kitchen.
It was no use disguising the fact, I relished the bird. He had no
adjuncts to speak of. There was no bread sauce, no tongue, no ham,
no anything to recommend him to a man who was in the habit of
dining well ; further, he laboured under the disadvantage of having
been seen in almost all steps of preparation, and yet I liked him.
There was not much on his bones, as he had been earning a precarious living in the orchard, but what I found was sweet.
How much the man who stated " Hunger is good sauce," would
have contributed to the happiness of his fellow-creatures had he only
given some receipt, stating how hunger was to be compassed short of
travelling forty miles into the wilderness to find it.

CHAPTER VI .

Mad ! my Masters .
DINNER over, I went out into the garden and sat ruminating in a
ridiculous arbour, which some one had built evidently for the accommodation of spiders, daddy-long-legs, moths, snails with shells on their
backs, and other such creatures .
I could not lie on the grass because it was a couple of feet high,
going to seed, and full of various insects and reptiles even worse than
those enumerated above; the dingy, old-fashioned, only quarter
furnished room which had been appropriated to my living use, was not
an inviting or exhilarating apartment, and as has been said, I went
out to the arbour, lit a cigar, and began to think .
The roof had disappeared, and as I thought and smoked, I looked
up into the bright green foliage of a chestnut tree.
Iwas trying to solve two problems : one which concerned the present, and one which did not ; the first, why such an impression of
horror should have been left upon the mind of Mrs. Waldrum and her

son regarding the manner of Mr. Waldrum's death ; the other, what
had really become of that lady. It seemed impossible to acquit Mr.
Francis Waldrum of some guilty knowledge in the matter.
As to the landlord's disappearance and the subsequent recovery of
his body, I felt satisfied he had fallen accidentally in the water, more
especially as I could in no way connect the fact of his death with that
of the flight or abduction of the foreign lady.
Continuing the family history down to the time of Valentine's father,
I failed to discover why the manner of his death should so powerfully
have affected both Mrs. Waldrum and her son.
There seemed nothing very wonderful in the affair after all. A
man, with mind no doubt already weakened by long and wearying
pecuniary anxieties, came to reside in a house haunted by a ghost
related by the closest ties to himself and his family. The loneliness of
the life, the change even from excitement to mere vegetation, began in
due course to tell. He got low-spirited, and wandering about the
place began to recall the memories connected with it.
From that point the distance to dreaming dreams and seeing visions
could not be considered remote.
He had fallen into a weak nervous state, and instead of removing
from the scene of his delusions, those around tried to argue and reason
him out of them, by which treatment the fancy remained impressed
more indelibly on him.
All this I went over in my own mind, looking at the matter from
various points of view, and dovetailing in the story told me by Mrs.
Paul with the few facts furnished by Valentine.
" There is something more in the affair than I know," I decided ;
" and Mrs. Paul is not the person to tell it to me, neither is Valentine .
To whom then should I apply."
No answer presenting itself, I resolved to take a walk and think
out this question.
Latchford was the nearest village, thither I bent my steps. Halfan-hour brought me to a small, old-fashioned church shaded by fir and
elm-trees. A great cypress grew half way between the church gate and
the porch. Under the shade of that cypress, under a green billow of
grass, all alone with the daisies and the dead, the birds and God,
Harold Waldrum lay dreamless, an unexplained mystery buried with him.
Who should expose it to me, I wondered, as I stood beside his
grave ; not the clergyman, no-his province was naturally with the wise
and the responsible, not with the mad and the irresponsible. Ifnot the
clergyman, who then could repeat to me anything but vague gossip.
Who, why, the doctor of course. How was it I had not thought of
that before ? I asked the first labourer I met where " The Doctor "
lived, and was directed to a house overlooking the village green, and
standing back from the road a house with a well-established garden
surrounding, and creepers which had evidently been growing for years
not a few almost covering it.
" Come," thought I, “ this looks well ; " and I rang the bell and was
answered by a neat maid-servant, who showed me into a sitting-room,
where I was soon joined by an extremely limp-looking young man, tall,
long-necked, light-haired, blue-eyed, large-mouthed, who evidently
thought Heaven had sent him a patient from The Grange.

He looked unaffectedly disappointed when he heard the nature of my
business, but bore the disappointment with greater courage than might
have been supposed, and set himself to work to give me such assistance
as he could, in a manner which, though it has certainly not added to
his riches, has probably caused him to partake of more champagne than
may, I fear, have been good for a person of habitually abstinent
instincts .
" No ; he was very sorry-very sorry indeed, but he could tell me
nothing about Mr. Waldrum's last illness. Of course he had heard
rumours-vague rumours, but they were not to be depended on. He
bought the practice a year previously from Doctor Wickham. It was
that gentleman who attended Mr. Waldrum.”
" Could he give me Doctor Wickham's address ?"
" Yes, certainly, with the greatest pleasure. 1, Waterloo Terrace,
New North Road, London. He did not himself exactly know where
the New North Road was, but most probably it might be on the way
to-or beyond Highgate, but perhaps I knew London better than he."
This I thought extremely likely, but contented myself by saying
I did know London tolerably well, and had little doubt but I should
be able to find Waterloo Terrace.
Subsequently, under the impression evidently that he had not been
able to do as much for me as could be desired, he took his hat and
volunteered to accompany me part of the way back.
When we reached the church he offered to procure the keys, as he
thought it contained some monuments and brasses which might interest
me. I saw both, and they had not the slightest interest in my eyes .
Once we were out of the churchyard he said he would walk a littleway
further, and in fact he did walk so far that he accompanied me to the
place where a gate should have been at the entrance to Crow Hall,
and indeed left me no resource but to ask him if he would walk in and
take a cup of tea.
He partook of several, and he smoked various cigars and several
pipes ; indeed, he only persuaded himself to leave me when Mrs. Paul,
who, I could see, was indignant and uneasy at the turn affairs were
taking, brought in my candle, and setting it down with a bang, inquired :
" Will you be pleased, sir, to want anything more ? "
" Nothing, Mrs. Paul," I replied, in my most gracious manner ; and
when the woman disappeared I availed myself of the opportunity to
inform him I had unfortunately forgotten wine, and such like commodities could not be purchased in the village, but upon the occasion
of my next visit to that part of the world I hoped he would do me
the pleasure of partaking of a friendly tumbler.
To do the young manjustice, I believe it was no thought of either
vinous or spirituous liquors which had induced him to prolong his stay,
but he took the hint nevertheless and made many apologies for having
remained so late.
It was at this time about half-past eight o'clock.
I do not think I should have cared to invite that young man to
pass an evening with me in town, but country life certainly produces
a wonderful effect upon one, mentally as well as physically.
Like the simple fowl innocent of town artifices-deprived of all the
advantages of skilful cookery and those adjuncts so necessary to his

fellow, who makes his appearance in the busy haunts of men, I found
the unsophisticated manners and habits of my new acquaintance
pleasing rather than otherwise.
Musing about the sort of life he must lead in these remote wilds,
I lighted my candle, and following the admirable example set by Mrs.
Paul, at a much earlier hour of the evening , proceeded upstairs to bed.
As I did so, with nothing less in my mind, I can declare, at the
moment than the ghost, I could have sworn that something brushed past
me, and I was sensible of a sudden and chilling change of temperature.
" There is some trick in it, " I mentally exclaimed. After bolting my
door, I examined, as on the previous night, every corner and cupboard in my room. " No doubt in an old house like this there are
secret panels and passages known only to the initiated. Mrs. Paul
looks as if she might have defrauded the Queen a little herself in days
goneby."
Thus I tried to reassure myself, but in vain. In whichever direction
I turned it seemed to me there was some one behind me ; some one or
thing who moved as I moved, who with impalpable presence followed
my Not .
stepsthat I heard a sound. Whatever the thing might be, it did
not even breathe. I knew that, because I held my own breath over
and over again in order to make certain.
" I am getting nervous ," I thought, and putting out the light I
placed the candlestick and matches ready to my hand, got into bed,
drew the clothes over me, laid my head on the pillow, and my invisible
friend having also apparently retired for the night, fell asleep.
I slept sound until morning-sounder than I ever did in my lodgings,
with the familiar and delightful London noises to lull me into peace
and oblivion , and when I awoke, as I did with a start, the sun was
shining in at the east window, having a mind as it seemed to make the
most of that day.
There was a noise close beside me too. Yes; a noise had
awakened me. Turning to the point whence it seemed to proceed , I
was surprised, and I may add mortified, to find the disturbance was
causedby a mouse, which, seated on the top of the candle, was partaking
of an extremely hearty meal.
When he found I was looking at him he paused for a moment, and
returned my stare with interest, his long tail hanging within reach of
my hand.
After this greeting he seemed to think the exigencies of politeness
satisfied , for he set to work again at the candle.
I made a feint of catching him, and he scuttled off to his hole.
When I woke again I found he had returned during the interval,
and eaten one side of the tallow off, leaving the wick bare.
“I wonder what may be his opinion on the subject ofghosts," I thought
asIsprang outof bed, and flinging open the window, looked forth over the
country bathed in the morning glory of glittering dew and molten gold .
Perhaps it might have been more to the purpose had I marvelled
what my own opinion was on the same matter; but I shrank from a
strict mental examination at the time .
I would defer analyzing my feelings and the conclusions I deduced
from them until I returned to London.

All I could bring myself to confess, was that I believed there was
something the matter with Crow Hall ; whether that something was
the air, the water, the trees, the drainage, or the story connected with
the place I could not, like others who had preceded me, decide ; on one
point, however, I experienced no doubts or misgivings-Crow Hall
agreed with Mrs. Paul. Let the climate of the place or its invisible
inhabitants militate against the health of other people, the house and
her company suited that worthy lady.
Clearly I was beginning to suspect Mrs. Paul of a complicity with
spirits, not exactly indicated by the term witch. On the other hand,
there was this in her favour ; unless she were really a witch it was
impossible she could have been in existence in the time of Philip
Waldrum, neither could she have had any hand in getting up the
appearances, or non-appearances, which alarmed successive tenants.
Neither did it appear she ever was employed about the house in any
capacity during the time when Valentine's father resided at Crow
Hall. So far she seemed guiltless in the matter.
But the idea occurred to me, that perhaps she might be a descendant
of some of those daring smugglers to whom the runs under and surrounding the Black Crow had been familiar.
Supposing the grounds were honeycombed with underground passages, and that Mrs. Paul possessed a knowledge of secret doors and
hiding-places in the house, unsuspected by any other living person, it became very clear that unless with her permission, no one would stand a
very good chance of living either comfortably or peaceably in Crow Hall.
"I must propitiate her, I thought ; " and I did this without meaning
to do so, when I stated my intention of returning to London that
afternoon .
Her eyes glistened, and one especially ugly tooth, which was
eminently distasteful to me, showed more distinctly than ever whilst
she listened-
" I hope to return next week," I went on ; hearing which, Mrs. Paul
evidently thought her exultation had been premature, for her face
clouded over, and the tooth retired behind her lips, disappearing totally
from view .
Back in London, dirty, delightful home-like London.
" Dearer art thou to me," I said, apostrophizing the streets, lanes,
and houses of the metropolis, " with thy fogs, rain, dust, than the finest
country to which man could take me. "
" Better," I thought, unconsciously parodying the Laureate, but
similar ideas do occur to extremely different orders of mind ; " better
an hour in London than a year in Essex. Spite of an aptitude for
eating lean fowls and ham and eggs, and existing without wine, all
acquired at Crow Hall, I should have become nervous had I remained
there, I should indeed. "
The very sight of the London pavements, the smell of the smoke,
the well-remembered blacks settling on my handkerchief, all these things
acted upon me like tonics, and I was myself once more. Ipooh-poohed
the ghosts ; I decided Crow Hall might be rendered habitable, and
money made of it. I. felt certain Mrs. Paul had been only trying to
frighten me, and, after all, what was there in her story ? Nothing.
I went to my club and dined, and felt better satisfied still. Yes, I

could help Val., and still not hurt myself; full of which idea I wrote to
him as follows :-
DEAR VAL., I think I know a man who will buy your place. I
have been to see it ; kindly let me know, at your convenience, if you
will take sixteen hundred and fifty.
" Yours faithfully,
" STAFFORD TREVOR."
To which he sent this reply by the very next post. I was still in
bed when it arrived :-
" DEAR MR. TREVOR,-Yes ; I will thankfully take sixteen hundred
and fifty pounds, and our agreement can remain as it was, plus commission on the extra one hundred and fifty.
" Indeed, I know not how to express my obligations .
" Yours truly,
" V. WALDRUM."
" I am in for it, then," Iconsidered ; " it is said that the woman who
deliberates is lost. Surely the converse holds good with men. I have
not deliberated, and I am bound in honour, at all events, to buy the
place. I will, however, hear Doctor Wickham's report this evening,
though that can make little difference now one way or another.
At a remote period of my life I had been in the habit of thinking
the New North Road one of the dreariest thoroughfares in London,
but that was in far distant days, when my knowledge of modern
Babylon was by no means so extensive as is the case at present.
Several localities present themselves at this moment as even less
inviting than the road which at St. John's Church, Hoxton, debouches
into a singularly nondescript and undesirable neighbourhood.
Men cannot always choose where they shall reside, more especially
men without a large private income and with a large personal family.
Can a person ever feel sufficiently thankful for not having a large personal family, if he be not possessed of a large private income ?
I, at all events, felt thankful for the fact when I was ushered into
Doctor Wickham's consulting-room.
A creature extremely diminutive in stature and painfully lean in
person, clad in tight trousers and a jacket covered with buttons, supposed to represent his rank as a page, answered the door, and informed
me the Doctor would be with me in a minute, ere he shut me into an
aliment-inspiring apartment commanding a view over a back gardenthe ordinary back garden, in fact, of middle-class London.
Next instant the Doctor himself appeared a small man, with sandy
hair, and keen grey eyes, and resolute mouth, who would, I am positive,
have made a name in the world hadhe not possessed that fatal soft spot
in his character which prompted him to marry a wife prematurely.
" I am grieved to disturb you at your dinner-hour," I said.
Having heard the clatter of cups and saucers, as well as smelt the
odour of grilled meat, I knew he must have been assisting at the purely
feminine, moral, and domestic institution called a meat tea ; but as
people always like it to be supposed they dine late, I thought it as well
to yield to the popular prejudice.
" A medical man---" he began.
" Is always ready to lend his time to a patient, I am aware, " I

added ; " but I am not a patient, I have no malady, and yet I want to
consult you on a matter which is important to me-the health of a
dear friend deceased ."
" Really, sir, " said Doctor Wickham.
" I think my name will tell you I am not a person likely to intrude
unnecessarily on the time or patience of a busy man like yourself, " I
replied. " I am the son of Professor Trevor, with whose works you
are, doubtless, well acquainted, and I am most anxious to learn a few
particulars from you about the illness of Mr. Harold Waldrum, of
Crow Hall."
" I make it a rule never to speak of the cases I attend," he said,
stiffening up in a moment.
" A most admirable rule, " I agreed. " Would that all medical men
adhered to it. But, supposing Mr. Valentine Waldrum requested
you to be confidential, should you then object to open your mind to me
fully about the matter."
" I apprehend, sir," he answered, " that Mr. Valentine Waldrum,
being a professional man himself, could afford you all the information
you desire."

Possibly, but the subject is a painful one to him."
"No doubt, and I can well believe he would wish as little said
about it in the future as may be."
Here was a dilemma. I could not offer this man a five-pound note
to bribe him to speak, acceptable as I felt certain such a sum would
prove. I could not force him to open his mouth, and so I rose to take
my leave without further parley, merely remarking-
" You, perhaps, imagine you are doing Mr. Waldrum a service in
this matter, but I can assure you the contrary is the case. It is my
intention to purchase Crow Hall, but I am quite determined not to do
so till I know all the particulars of the late owner's illness and
death."
" Purchase Crow Hall ! " repeated the little Doctor.
" Yes ; is there anything very wonderful about that ? " I inquired.
" I should not like to purchase it," he remarked.

" Why not ? " I asked. Surely the fancies and utterances of a
madman ought not to be allowed to prejudice one against so cheap
and desirable a property."
" Perhaps not ; but after my experiences at Crow Hall, I would
rather you bought it than I," he persisted.
" Come," I remarked, " you have said as much against the place as
you well can, you may as well tell me the story straightforwardly. I
know all about the reputed ghost. I have slept in the house ; I shall
sleep there again next week."
" Don't," he said. " Take my advice. Buy Crow Hall if you like ;
pull it down, or let it stand empty, but do not sleep in it-do not."
" May I ask why ? " I said. " You cannot surely expect any sane
man to allow his money to remain unproductive, merely because at some
remote period a foreign lady disappeared from a strange house, no one
knew why or how."
He motioned me to sit down again, and he took a chair himself,
looking with a perplexed expression at the depressing garden, with its
two straight bordered walks and its strip of grass, terminating in a

dreary-looking summer-house not much larger than a dog-kennel,
where, doubtless, he smoked his pipe, and ruminated on ways and
means after the youngsters were safely packed away in the sheets.
" Mr. Waldrum is, of course, aware that you mean to buy Crow
Hall ? " he said, after a pause.
" He fancies I want it for a friend of mine," I replied ; " in fact,
there is a note referring to the subject," and I handed Val.'s epistle to
the Doctor.
He read it over, folded the paper, and returned the note to me.
" You had heard, of course, there were stories afloat concerning the
place ?" he suggested.
" Yes, and Mr. Waldrum said he wished no one to purchase it who
was ignorant of them. "
" Precisely so, and then -"
" Then I went to the fountain head and heard all about Philip
Waldrum's wife, and the landlord of the Black Crow, and the tenants who
could not rest at night, or keep their health in the house."
" Anything else ? "
"Nothing except what I had previously heard from Valentine
Waldrum-namely, that his father died raving mad; that his disease
first indicated itself by seeing visions and faces, and all that kind of
thing. I never questioned either him or his mother much about the
matter, as they always seemed to avoid it."
"May I inquire your object in wishing to purchase Crow Hall ? "
" Yes ; I wish to do the son of my old friend, Mrs. Waldrum, a
good turn, if it be possible, without losing much by the transaction."
Once again he sat silent for a moment, looking out over his small
domain, without, I am satisfied, seeing any single thing it contained ;
then he said-
" Sometimes, Mr. Trevor, I think there may be as much harm done
by silence as by speech, and I am satisfied Mr. Waldrum would not
wish you or any one to buy that doomed house ignorant of what has
happened in it. I had attended Mr. Waldrum at The Grange in the
latter days of his residence there ; and, naturally, when he removed to
Crow Hall, I used frequently to call there non-professionally, and
oftener still to meet him and exchange a few words when I was walking about the parish or visiting patients who lived on the other side
of Latchford Common. Before he had been in the place very long I
was struck by a change in his appearance. It came on gradually,
and I did not notice it till one day when he happened to be walking
before me on the road, and something in his gait, in the droop
of his head, in the slouch of his shoulders, struck me with that sort of
uneasiness which a medical man's instinct feels at any physical alteration for which there is not, so far as he is aware, any actual cause.
" " You walk as if you were tired,' I said to him; it was a bracing,
frosty day-a day on which a healthy man had no business to feel tired.
' Are not you well ?'
،،،
Yes, I am well,' he answered ; but there is something the
matter with me. I have always latterly felt weary. I sleep soundly,
not to say heavily, and yet I wake in the morning more tired thanwhen
I lie down at night ; and my head is heavy-it does not ache, you
know, but there is a weight across my forehead. I have curious3dreams

too, and when I wake, as I often do suddenly, I have a feeling as if
some one were standing beside my pillow. It is all nonsense of course,'
he finished.
" " There is something amiss with your liver,' I observed.
" " Very likely,' he agreed; ' you had better put it to rights for
me.'
" We were close by my house at that moment, so I asked him in and
inquired more particularly as to his symptoms, but I could not find out
what was the matter with him .
" His forehead was not hot, his tongue was in good order ; he did
not complain of cold feet, or ache or pain anywhere ; his lungs were
sound, I knew. I could not discover anything wrong with his liver.
" The only things about him I did not like were his appearance and
his pulse. There was an indescribable grey look on his face, and there
was a nervous flutter in his pulse that made me ask him-
"" Have you anything on your mind ?'
"" I have had much on my mind for many a day past,' he said,
evasively.
" " But anything extra-anything unconnected with worldly matters
-with money.'
"" I do not quite understand what you mean.'
"" I mean, have you any fresh trouble ; has anything occurred
latterly to annoy you ? '
"" No,' he said, ' except that I do not like this feeling in my
head.'
" I told him that feeling was a consequence, not a cause, and tried
hard to get him to confide to me what he had on his mind. All in
vain ; he either had nothing at that time to tell, or he was determined
not to tell it, so I sent him some medicine, and thought no more
about the matter till one day when his son, who was at home at the
time, came rushing up to my house to entreat me to go to his father
immediately.
"" He has gone suddenly mad, I think,' he said ; ' persists he saw a
woman's face at the window, and declares it is Philip Waldrum's wife
come back.'
" " He must be delirious,' I said.
" " He is no more delirious than you are,' said his son, almost
rudely ; ' he is mad, and I have been afraid matters were tending to
this for some time past.'
" When we reached Crow Hall Mrs. Waldrum was sitting in the
drawing-room crying, the servants were talking together in whispers,
and Mr. Waldrum was standing in that bit of neglected garden lying
under the oldest part of the house, staring up at a small window in one
of the gables. He greeted me without the slightest evidence of
insanity.
"" Seeing is believing, Doctor,' he said, laying his hand on my
shoulder. Now, you follow my eyes ; you will not have long to wait ;
she has come to that window half- a-dozen times within the last halfhour.'
" I stood beside him for a few minutes, and then observed-
" Now, Mr. Waldrum, I cannot see anything, and what is more, I
do not believe you can see anything either, and you must not try to

frighten your household by talking such nonsense-you must not,
really.'
" Well, perhaps I had better not talk of it,' he answered ; ' but,
Doctor, one word,' and he lowered his voice, ' it is true for all that.
She has been haunting me for a long time, and I know who she is
at last-Philip Waldrum's lost wife ; you remember her portrait at
The Grange. Well, I saw her at that window, looking as if she had
stepped out of the frame.'
"Of course it was no use arguing with a man in such a state of mind,
so I merely advised Mrs. Waldrum and his son to try the effect of
change of air.
" It is easy for a doctor to tell the friends of a patient to take him
away, but it is not always so simple a matter for the friends to follow
his advice.
" It was difficult for Mrs. Waldrum to adopt my suggestion, I knew ;
but somehow she managed to get her husband to Hastings.
" They stayed away for three months ; at the end of that time they
returned, he being, as she, poor soul, imagined, cured. One look was
enough for me. I knew the man had come home to die ; and I suppose
I must have shown something of my dismay, for he said, when his wife
left the room-
" " Doctor, what I saw before I left here was a warning to me. I
hope I have taken it to heart.'
" By the same night's post I wrote to his son, and after a very short
delay, he came and stayed to the end.
" It would have been almost impossible to trace how he sank. Week
by week he grew weaker ; until one morning a message arrived, asking
me to step up to Crow Hall. Mr. Waldrum wanted to see me particularly. He was still in bed, and looked worn and exhausted.
"" No, I am not so well to-day,' he said, in answer to my inquiry ;
' I am tired, tired, tired ; but that is no matter. Doctor, I wanted to
tell you a curious dream I had last night. I do not speak of any of
these things to my wife or Valentine now. They do not like it, and
they cannot understand ; but I felt I must repeat it to some one.
First, I dreamt I was awake; that it was a bright moonlight night ;
that I could see patches of light on the walls, the floor, the curtains.
The door was open between this room and the next, and I could hear
by Esther's light breathing that she was asleep, poor dear. I was lying
looking at the moon, and thinking about the past and the futureabout the world to which I am travelling so fast, Doctor, and wondering how my wife and boy will get on in this-when feeling that nameless something I have mentioned before, I turned my head, and saw
Philip Waldrum's wife standing in the middle of a patch of moonlight
that streamed against the wall. She was dressed all in black, her head
was uncovered, round her neck she wore the traditional necklace, and
on her hands she had the rings we have heard of so often. They
gleamed in the moon's beams like stars. She beckoned me to follow
her, and I could not choose but do so. She seemed to pass into the
wall, and I did the same. Lighted by her diamonds, we went down a
narrow winding passage, the stairs rotted away with age, and the walls
dirty and covered with mould, and wet with damp. She turned now
and then to see if I was following, and at last we found ourselves in a
LIBRARY
EDINBURGH

square room, that smelt like a charnel-house, and was close and suffocating as a grave. In apassage leading out of it something lay in a heap.
She pointed to it, and, looking more closely, I saw these were bones on
which jewels sparkled as on the hands and neck of my companion. As
I stood, the face of Philip's wife changed-her cheeks dropped in,
her eyes grew lustreless, her mouth fell, the skin tightened over her
forehead. While I looked her countenance altered to that of a grinning
death's-head ; then the whole body collapsed, and I was alone with a
heap of bones. How I got back I do not know. I have forgotten that
part of the dream ; but when I awoke it was broad day, and I felt weary
enough to have been walking half the night.'
" It certainly did not occur to me then that he was describing this
vision as a dream, merely because he was afraid to define it even to
himself as anything else ; so, instead of trying to lead him from the
subject, as Mrs. Waldrum and his son always tried to do, I let him talk
on, and hark back to the subject as often as he liked.
" While he was for the third or fourth time describing to me the
very spot in the wall which had seemed to open, and was pointing it
out with his hand, I said-
" " What have you got on your sleeve, Mr. Waldrum ? '
"" On my sleeve,' he repeated.
" " Yes ; it is one mass of dirt,' I answered ; and turning the folds
round, I showed him the marks, as if it had been rubbed against some
black, moist substance.
" He looked at it, and then at me. Next instant he fell back on his
pillow in a dead faint.
" I thought we never should get him out of it. He lay like one
dead, till I began to despair of his recovery ; but he did recover.
" Of course, the one idea suggested to me by his story, and the
black marks on his sleeve was, that he walked in his sleep ; and after
telling Valentine he had better be in the room at night instead of his
mother, and keep the door locked, I went away, feeling all that could
be done had been .
" But he grew more and more restless ; as his physical strength
decreased, his mental irritability increased, and he was unable to control his speech, or to keep silence concerning the visions he saw, and
the terrible sight which had been revealed to him.
" Ill though he was, I urged his being removed from Crow Hall. I
offered the use of my own house, if none other were available ; but he
would not hear of it. If the subject were broached, he burst into a
paroxysm of either grief or rage-sometimes weeping like a childagain inveighing against the cruelty of those about him.
" They wanted to take away his last hope ; wealth, wealth untold
was hidden away about the house, and he would find it for them. He
should never enjoy it himself-that, of course, was a vain hope, a past
expectation-but he might leave it for his wife and his son ; he would
have it if we could only be persuaded to let him alone.
" What were we to do ? I put it to you, sir, what were we to do ?
“ “ Humour him,' I suggested.
"We did humour him. Mrs. Waldrum watched him by day, his
son by night. The doors were kept locked ; the keys removed. I saw
him every day. I knew the end was a mere question of weeks ; when,

about four o'clock one morning, I was awakened by a tremendous
knocking at the door.
"" What is the matter ? ' I asked.
" It's Mr. Waldrum, sir, drownded in the pond ! '
" I don't know how I got my clothes on. I don't know how I got
to Crow Hall. He lay on his bed like one departed, but he was not
dead. He spoke to me quite rationally once. I had cleared the room,
and we were alone together.
"" You remember what I told you about Philip's wife ? ' he said.
" I nodded .
"" She has come often since, but particularly last night. We went
down as before, but this time I could not get back. I went groping,
groping on till I came to water. Then it caught me, and I shouted
for help . It came . You know the rest.'
" After that he lapsed into delirium. He talked of hidden treasures ; of a dark, beautiful woman ; of bodies buried in subterranean
chambers ; of passages known to none but himself. And then he died.
I was with him when he passed away.
" He stretched out his hands to the phantom which had cursed his
later life, and said-
"" Forgive me ! I had not strength '
" That was all ."
"And the moral you deduce from this," I said, " is that Crow
Hall is an ' uncanny ' sort of place ? "
" It is a weird place," he answered. " Laugh if you like ; it drove
me from the neighbourhood. "
" I have no inclination to laugh, " I replied. " Nevertheless, I
intend to buy."
"Do not blame me, then, sir, for anything that may ensue,” he
remarked .
" I am not one of the Waldrums," I replied ; " and if I were, I do
not think Mrs. Philip could induce me to take nocturnal rambles with
her."
He looked at me, and shook his head gravely.
" I have a good digestion," I observed.
" There can be no doubt of that, or you would never buy Crow
Hall, " he replied.
After all, we parted good friends. That is how, when the grand
moment arrives, I should like to part with the world ; but I think such
a desirable exit improbable.

CHAPTER VII .

Mr. Waldrum Understands .

CROW HALL was mine, and with the purchase-money Valentine Waldrum furnished, not a house, but a waiting and consulting-room-to
say nothing of a suite of private apartments-in a mansion once
inhabited by nobility, but which had, in due course of time, come into
the possession of a retired butler ; who, with his wife, an ex-lady'smaid, were very glad indeed to make mutually satisfactory arrangements with so desirable a tenant.
If I may say so without the charge of vainglory being preferred
against me, Valentine would never of himself have found any residence
or person likely to meet his requirements ; consequently, the credit of
house, furniture, servants, and moderate charges may fairly be given
to me.

A Yet it was not without a struggle I agreed to abandon my first
scheme, and permit him to settle down into bachelor chambers .
I wanted him to marry. I wished him to look for a wife before a
state of celibacy became chronic. I told him surgeons and doctors
ought to be husbands and fathers ; and that, if he wished to succeed
in his profession, he ought to make it his business to find a lady-if an
heiress, so much the better-but, in any case, a lady amiable, educated,
intelligent ; who could order his household, sit at the head of his table,
and help him to push his way in society as only a clever woman can.
In answer to these remarks, for some time he only fenced or laughed ;
but at last he said plainly he never intended to marry.
" If I ever felt myself attracted by a girl, and likely to fall in love
with her," he said, " I should flee away as swiftly as though I knew
she were one of the Lorlei. The Waldrums have been a queer lot for
many a long day, and I will not perpetuate the evil. Every man, I
suppose, has a natural longing to hold his son on his knee-to think
his name will be perpetuated through his children ; but how should I
look my son in the face without a shudder, remembering the legacy I
must bequeath him ? What delight should I feel thinking of one
sprung from my loins ending his days a gibbering idiot, or a raving
maniac in an asylum ? No ; marriage is not for me. I have taken
my profession to wife instead of a woman ; and, no matter what my
own latter years may have in store, I know I shal leave behind me
brain-children that may yet do the world good service."
" Pooh ! " I said. " Your father was no more mad than I am . He
got into a low state of health ; saw visions and dreamt dreams ; walked
in his sleep, and talked nonsense about hidden wealth and a woman
who wrought much trouble in the Waldrum family-as foreigners, male
and female, are apt to do in regular, well-conducted British households .
That is the sensible, matter-of-fact way of looking at the business."
At this juncture, Mr. Valentine Waldrum rose from his chair, and,
taking my arm in his, held me as if I were in a vice.
" My good fellow," I observed, " if you are strong, be merciful ! "
But he never heeded my remonstrance.
" Once for all," he said, " let this matter end between us. As a
medical man, I might be inclined to adopt your view of the question, if
what you have stated were all; but it is not all. There is mad blood
in the Waldrums, I tell you. I saw that woman too ! I never thought
to speak of this to living being again ; but I saw her. It was before
the funeral, and I had gone into the room where he lay to look at him
once more. At the foot of the coffin stood a lady. She was dressed
all in black, and she was wringing her hands like one in some terrible
agony. For a moment I stood still, looking at her. Then she turned
her face towards me, and I recognized her as the original of the
picture at The Grange-a woman with black hair, and great, sorrow

ful black eyes. She wore the fatal necklace of precious stones, and
had diamonds sparkling on her hands. I must have lost consciousness for the time. When I came to myself, I was alone with the
dead !"
"And the next time ? " I inquired.
" Was the night before we left Crow Hall. I had sat up late,
smoking, and, as I went up the staircase to bed, I distinctly felt the
skirt of a woman's dress brush against me. Nothing was visible then,
but when I reached the landing, I saw, in the moonlight which
streamed through the window, a dark figure standing with her back
to me. As before, she slowly turned her head, and I beheld Philip
Waldrum's wife again, with her fatal beauty-with her decking of
gems .
" She beckoned me to follow her. I felt something I could not define
drawing me into the room where my father died ; but with a last effort
I called back my reason and fled. I do not mind confessing to you that
I spent the whole of the night in prayer ; I entreated God to deliver
me from the haunting of that terrible presence, and to enable me to
keep to my solemn resolution of living single all my days, rather than
that child of mine should inherit so fearful a doom .
I sat for a minute silent, ashamed to confess in that ghostly house
I too had felt the something he described sweep past me, and yet I
dared not altogether refrain from expressing my belief.
" Val.," I said at last, " do you know I think there really is a ghost
at Crow Hall, or else some one who considers it worth while to personate the foreign lady. It could be easily done, you know. "
" No ! " he interrupted ; " do you suppose Idid not exhaust every
possible and impossible conjecture before deciding the place was
accursed, and we all mad together ? By the by, what is your friend
going to do with it ? "
He did not know till long afterwards I was the actual purchaser.
" He will put it in order, and charge the new railway company a
fancy price for spoiling the seclusion of so charming a property."
" He does not intend to live there then ? "
" No ; he buys as a mere speculation, he buys for a rise ; if it
proves a fall he must put up with the loss, and can afford to do so. By
the way, I am going to Crow Hall next month. Can I deliver any
message to the lady with the diamonds ? "
" She will never appear to any but one of our doomed race," he
answered gloomily.
" I fancy she is a lady of an extremely erratic and capricious turn
ofmind," was my reply; " and it would, therefore, be extremely difficult
to say what she might do or might not do."
Mr. Valentine Waldrum turned away offended : a pet ghost is like a
cherished ailment no man parts with either readily.
So far, however, he proved right. I never saw the lady with the
diamonds . Philip Waldrum's dead wife did not care evidently to
exhibit her charms to strangers ; nevertheless, I could not sleep comfortably in the house. I always had that sense of a second presence
after my door was locked, and I apparently alone, which I may
as well state at once tried my courage as nothing before or since ever
tried it.

Still I was not going to be beaten. I had bought the place and meant
to make money out of it. To make money it was absolutely necessary
the popular belief in the idea of previous tenants should be shaken,
and so I shook it. Once Mrs. Paul understood I was the owner of
Crow Hall, all trouble in that quarter ceased. She waited upon me
" hand and foot," to use her own vague phrase. When I suggested
that I should like a room with a western aspect, a front apartment was
scrubbed and prepared for my reception, and in it man nor woman,
smuggler, nor ghost, disturbed my repose.
Further, I at once gave Mr. Dogset notice, that on and after a
certain date I should require him to relinquish his tenancy of the Crow
Hall acres, which so astonished him, that he offered me a pound an acre
more rental, which I accepted, and bound him to keep the fences in
a state of proper repair.
For my own part, I had the out and inside of the house painted,
the drive gravelled, the grass mown, the gates replaced, the gardens
dug over and put in order. Mrs. Paul's fowls had to confine their
scientific researches to their yard and the adjacent paddock, and it
came to be rumoured throughout the parish that the Crow Hall ghost
was laid.
I did not contradict the rumours, though I knew it was not true.
When the railway surveyors came to inspect the property, they found
a country-house in good repair, the grounds in order and well kept,
the farm let at an increased rental, and better cropped and stocked
than had been the case for years .
They were impressed, and offered me a very fair price for the slip
of land they wanted.
At once, as an idle man who did not want to be troubled, I accepted
their offer. After the purchase-money was paid I felt secure. Iwas
not afraid of the future ; 1 knew I should see my outlay back again, and
doubled possibly. In which event I meant Valentine should share in
my prosperity.
As has been already stated, I am eminently non-speculative.
Perhaps it is for this reason that when I do speculate fortune favours
me .

For example ; no worse whist player ever existed, and yet when I
consent to make a fourth, such cards are dealt to me that success is
absolutely certain.
Again: suppose I see, as I sometimes do, a mine or a company in
which I feel disposed to buy a few shares, those shares are sure to
go up, and then I sell. I do not hold my poor purchase, no matter
how promising things look, in the expectation of gaining two hundred
per cent. No, I wait for a certain rise, and then find a customer.
Of course I sometimes see the shares of a company, in which I have
no further interest, touch a fabulous price, but that does not fret me
in the least. More frequently I see the grand programme collapse,
and the final scene of the drama played out in the Vice-Chancellor's
Court, or else patronized in person by the Chief Judge in Bankruptcy,
to say nothing of a host of clamorous creditors.
As I have before remarked, I believe in nothing as a really secure
investment except the Three per Cents, and a first mortgage on land.
Nevertheless, occasionally I coquette with the money market to the

You

R. CALDECOTT, DEL.

EDM
" I beheld Philip Waldrum's wife again, with her fatal beauty."UND EVANS, SC.

P

Fairy Water. 57extent of a few hundreds. To please fair patronesses I buy a lottery
ticket now and then, and for the sake of times long past, I take a little
trouble about such a place as Crow Hall, for instance.
To pick up, however, once more the thread of my story.
In a fashionable quarter, in well-furnished rooms, with an unexceptional gentleman in black to show gentlemen and ladies into the
apartment, which may well, I think, to borrow a City phrase, be called
a sweating room, by reason of the feverish agony there undergone, Mr.
Valentine Waldrum did fairly well. He did not succeed as my friend
the medical humbug prophesied, perhaps because he lacked some of
the elements of success, perhaps because my friend never sent him but
three patients, one a governess, one an artist, and one an eccentric
country squire, who screwed him down to perform an operation any old
practitioner would have charged fifty guineas for, at, to quote the
✓ advertising agents, a nominal price of five.
Nevertheless he succeeded pretty well. He was paying his way and
gaining a name, and seemed sufficiently happy. All his leisure moments he devoted to some abstruse studies connected with those parts
of the human internal economy which are connected with the spleen,
or the lights, or the liver, or the kidneys. I beg to assure the reader
I have no feeling of favouritism as regards the internal mechanism of
man, and it is quite immaterial to meto which organ Mr. Waldrum
directed his attention. A copy of his book containing the author's
autograph is on my bookshelves, but I never read it, and I can conscientiously say I never shall.
All this, however, has nothing to do with the fact that he did make
some part of the human body his study ; that he discovered something
in it, or deduced something from it never previously deduced or discovered ; that he wrote a book on the subject which was well reviewed
in the " Lancet," and which gave him a certain standing in the opinion
of his professional brethren.
It is quite one thing, however, to stand well with brother surgeons,
and another to hit the fancy of the general public. Perhaps surgeons
are like other men of the world, and like those in their own line best
who have not the faculty of climbing very fast or very high. Anyhow,
if Valentine Waldrum won favour, he did not make guineas so rapidly
as I had hoped would prove the case.
Further, by the time his book was finished, the reviews had appeared,
and his brethren had begun to remark-
" Waldrum is a clever fellow ; he has something in him. He will
make his mark yet-," Waldrum fell ill.
He had tried his sight by staring at unpleasant objects through the
microscope. He had been examining and torturing all sorts of animals.
He had been reading books, old and new, on the subject nearest his
heart. He had been attending people who did not pay him, in the
interests of science, and he had been sitting up at night when he could
have done his work just as well in the middle of the day.
All this and more I remarked to him, but he only smiled in answer,
as though the production of a book never likely to be read out of his
own profession, and by very few of the members composing it, were a
more than sufficient off-set against impaired sight, low spirits, and a
generally depressed state of health.
3 §

R. CALDECOTT, DEL. EDMUND EVANS, SC.

" I beheld Philip Waldrum's wife again, with her fatal beauty."

Fairy Water. 57extent of a few hundreds. To please fair patronesses I buy a lottery
ticket now and then, and for the sake of times long past, I take a little
trouble about such a place as Crow Hall, for instance.
To pick up, however, once more the thread of my story.
In a fashionable quarter, in well-furnished rooms, with an unexceptional gentleman in black to show gentlemen and ladies into the
apartment, which may well, I think, to borrow a City phrase, be called
a sweating room, by reason of the feverish agony there undergone, Mr.
Valentine Waldrum did fairly well. He did not succeed as my friend
the medical humbug prophesied, perhaps because he lacked some of
the elements of success, perhaps because my friend never sent him but
three patients, one a governess, one an artist, and one an eccentric
country squire, who screwed him down to perform an operation any old
practitioner would have charged fifty guineas for, at, to quote the
advertising agents, a nominal price of five.
Nevertheless he succeeded pretty well. He was paying his way and
gaining a name, and seemed sufficiently happy. All his leisure moments he devoted to some abstruse studies connected with those parts
of the human internal economy which are connected with the spleen,
or the lights, or the liver, or the kidneys . I beg to assure the reader
I have no feeling of favouritism as regards the internal mechanism of
man, and it is quite immaterial to me to which organ Mr. Waldrum
directed his attention. A copy of his book containing the author's
autograph is on my bookshelves, but I never read it, and I can conscientiously say I never shall.
All this, however, has nothing to do with the fact that he did make
some part of the human body his study ; that he discovered something
in it, or deduced something from it never previously deduced or discovered ; that he wrote a book on the subject which was well reviewed
in the " Lancet," and which gave him a certain standing in the opinion
of his professional brethren.
It is quite one thing, however, to stand well with brother surgeons,
and another to hit the fancy of the general public. Perhaps surgeons
are like other men of the world, and like those in their own line best
who have not the faculty of climbing very fast or very high. Anyhow,
if Valentine Waldrum won favour, he did not make guineas so rapidly
as I had hoped would prove the case.
Further, by the time his book was finished, the reviews had appeared,
and his brethren had begun to remark-
" Waldrum is a clever fellow ; he has something in him. He will
make his mark yet-," Waldrum fell ill.
He had tried his sight by staring at unpleasant objects through the
microscope. He had been examining and torturing all sorts of animals.
He had been reading books, old and new, on the subject nearest his
heart. He had been attending people who did not pay him, in the
interests of science, and he had been sitting up at night when he could
have done his work just as well in the middle of the day.
All this and more I remarked to him, but he only smiled in answer,
as though the production of a book never likely to be read out of his
ownprofession, and by very few of the members composing it, were a
more than sufficient off-set against impaired sight, low spirits, and a
generally depressed state of health.
3§

This was the position, pecuniary, sanitary, and moral, of Mr. Valentine Waldrum when I left town to pay my usual visit to Fairy Water,
and this was how it came to pass I suggested the expediency of inviting
him to stay there.
I and one of the boys, a riotous young imp, between whom and the
pony there seemed a sort of rapport which carried us up hill and down
dale, and along the level, as fast as the creature could tear, went over to
the station to meet our visitor, who mightily astonished master Ralph
by taking the reins from him .
" I have no doubt you are a capital whip," he remarked, " but for
all that I cannot submit to be driven by a lad of your size."
" All right," said Master Ralph ; " that is if you can drive. "
" You want your ears boxed, young gentleman," I observed.
" If I did want them boxed, I don't know who is to do it, " retorted
Ralph, whom I had heard on one occasion call me an old fogie.
" Very likely I shall," said Valentine, with a genial smile.
The boy looked him over, and then bursting into a hoarse laugh,
exclaimed
" Come, you ain't a muff, that is one comfort. "
" What would your mamma say, if she heard you use such expressions, Ralph ? " I inquired.
" Oh ! she'd cry ; but we never let her hear. She's a woman, and
she does not understand, so we don't vex mother-none of us."
" See you never do, my lad," said Mr. Waldrum. " Time may
bring you many good gifts, but it will never bring you a second
mother."
Ralph did not make any direct reply to this, but I saw the young
rascal turn up his eyes and clasp his hands, and heard him mutter to
himself-
" My ! ain't it better than coру ! "
Mrs. Trevor came to the door to meet us. She had seen so little
of the world, she was such a child still in many respects, that she
thought so distinguished a guest as Valentine ought to be received with
all the honours .
She was a staid, quiet little matron, and as I watched her shyly
holding out her hand to the new arrival, I felt irresisibly reminded of
some plant grown in a cellar, of some creature kept long in confinement, of some bird in its earliest flight, utterly ignorant of the ways
and manners of those of its fellows who have been accustomed to liberty
from their youth upwards.
Of course she was not, even in her early youth, the sort of woman
Valentine was likely to admire. I had not seen him in society without
understanding precisely the lady fair to whom he would have inclined
had he permitted himself to incline to anybody.
Juno-like beauties were his favourites . To them he directed his
eyes, his attention, his discourse. Given a woman with well developed
and better exposed shoulders, full face, decided features, large eyes, redlipped mouth, filled with regular white teeth, and a fluent tongue, and
round and about that shrine my protégé wandered.
Making however every due allowance for this proclivity, I felt disappointed at the expression which came over his face when he first saw
my cousin.

I could not tell what it implied, whether contempt or derision, or
simple astonishment.
At any rate, if I ever felt inclined to pick a quarrel with him it
was then ; but immediately I reproached myself for the feeling.
" He knows nothing of her past life," I considered. " He is judging her as he might a woman of society, and thinks her small, plain,
gauche. He has no idea of her worth, nor suspicion of what she has
suffered, poor darling ; " and when she kissed me, as was her innocent
mode of receiving her late husband's cousin, I returned the salute,
which was not my innocent mode, as a rule, and glanced at Valentine
after I had done so.
He was looking at me, I found, with a very queer twinkle in his
eyes, and the desire to pick a quarrel grew almost irresistible.
After the first ten minutes, however, things went on smoothly.
Once he saw the sick lad he was in his element. Having met with a
human being more than ordinarily ill, whose case nevertheless was not
beyond hope, his spirits rose at once. He forgot his own ailments ; he
forgot that so far he had won less money than fame ; he forgot everything save his skill, and devoted it and himself to the heir of Fairy
Water.
During the first part of his stay I was his constant companion.
We walked, drove, smoked, sat together. Mrs. Trevor and the lads
kept themselves to themselves with a pertinacity for which I am only
able to account on the ground that they were all, mother and boys,
afraid of the new comer . Miss Isobel had her own views on the
subject, however, and haunted my friend with a pertinacity which
seemed to me troublesome ; but he would not let me send her away.
" There are not many who care for me," he said, with a pathetic
break in his voice. " If this little one likes to say she will marry
me, where is the harm to either of us ? "
Where indeed ? And yet there was something in the tiny maiden's
repeated assertion, " I love you ; I will marry you when I am a
woman," which seemed to me to be a discord in the calm harmony of
that almost monastic home.
I had assisted at the sacrifice of the mother, who might never now
hope to love or marry ; and yet here was the child, all unconscious of
what marrying and giving in marriage had proved to one of the dramatis
personæ present that morning in Winchelsea church, inventing her own
little domestic story, and assigning to herself and this man, whom I
could remember running about in short frocks and red shoes before
Mrs. Trevor was thought of, the parts of hero and heroine .
After a time there came a change, however, in our order of proceeding. As Valentine recovered his health and spirits, I found myself
more alone with Mrs. Trevor and the invalid, whilst Mr. Waldrum and
the boys took long rambles over the hills ; or hired a boat, and rowed
up and down the river ; or went fishing or playing cricket.
In a few days after he began to make companions of them, the
* lads worshipped him, as lads do worship muscular men, whether
Christians or sinners. They were never happy except in his presence,
they followed him about like dogs, and wearied not in reciting his
feats of strength, his acts of valour, and his performances with bat,
rod, and oar, for the edification of their mother,Geoffrey, and myself.

Gradually i observed Mrs. Trevor seemed to weary of their
ecstasies ; the smile with which she listened to their narratives grew
forced ; and whilst they chatted on she would often look away, as if
thinking of something foreign to their conversation.
I could not imagine what was the reason for this. It was natural
enough I should feel tired to death both of Valentine and the lads, but
with her the case was different. Hitherto, she had been in the habit
of evincing the keenest sympathy with their few sports ; and when
they brought, to my intense disgust, a bottle filled with sticklebacks into
the drawing-room, she actually attempted to count the victims.
Now, all this interest had died out. Like me, she seemed to loathe
the name of trout, whilst cricket became as great a word of dread to
her as to me.
Knowledge came one evening as we sat by the window, looking
down on the water which gave its name to the place. The sun was
shining through the trees, and threw long patches of shifting and
glimmering light upon the lake, making it look a fitting haunt for the
most fanciful fairy that ever danced on greensward, or hid herself in
the cup of the floating lily. Under a great walnut-tree Valentine sat
on a bench, the sick boy lying on a couch near him, and the others
grouped around, making the summer stillness hideous with peals of
laughter.
People talk of the music of children's voices, but anything less
resembling music than those shouts of merriment I never heard,
save, perhaps, the braying of a German band when every instrument
is out of tune.
I had been discoursing about the beauty of the landscape, and was
pointing out to Mrs. Trevor the perpetual changes that flitted over the
face of the water as the sunlight fell now here, now there upon it.
" I do not think I ever saw Fairy Water look so worthy of its
name," I remarked at last, as a stately swan came slowly sailing across
a patch of light, which made it seem as though he were floating through
a sea of molten gold.
" Yes," she answered, and there was something in her tone which
caused me to turn from my contemplation of the external prospect.
She was not looking at the lake, or the flickering sunbeams, or the
heavy foliage of the solemn trees ; her eyes were fastened on the group
gathered on the lawn, and they were full of unbidden, perhaps unconscious, tears.
Why, Mary," I exclaimed, " what is the matter ? "
She covered her face with her hands, and wept softly.
" I am very foolish very wicked, perhaps ; but I can't help it.
My children are all I have, and till he came I was first in their hearts.
Now they leave me for a total stranger."
"Don't be a baby, Mary," I expostulated, " your boys love you
just as much as ever ; but it is natural that a man like Mr. Waldrum,
who in many ways," I added, loftily, seems little more than a lad

himself, should attract their fancy. It is far better they should openly
show their attachment for a person in their own rank of life, than be
sneaking secretly after grooms, rat-catchers, and poachers."
" I never felt afraid of my boys doing anything of that kind," she
replied, with spirit.

.

"Nevertheless," was my answer, " it is precisely what your boys
have been doing. When you are present, they conduct themselves like
saints ; but when your back is turned, there are no greater young
Turks on earth. I do not say this in any disparagement of the lads.
They are fine, spirited children, and though they would not, I believe,
vex you for any consideration, still they cannot help their young blood,
and light hearts, and muscles asking to be used, and minds wanting to
be occupied. You cannot go fishing, shooting, boating, and cricketing
with them; and fond as they are of their mother, they delight in the
company of any man able to share in their sports. Because I never
had any taste for such things, I have heard that young rascal Ralph
call me a ' duffer,' and other equally opprobrious names. Why, he
tried to get the best of Mr. Waldrum the first evening we met him at
the station ; but Valentine threatened to box his ears, and the boy was
delighted."
She sat thinking for a minute over all I had said, and then she
remarked-
" So it comes to this, I shall not be able to bring up my boys
myself."
There was a pathetic quiver about her mouth, a beseeching look
in her eyes, which tempted me to shirk telling her the truth, but I put
aside the temptation. My own views had been enlarged since I saw
the influence a man could acquire over the young termagants, and I was
not going to run the risk of breaking her heart in the future for the
sake of uttering pleasant things in the present.
" My dear," I said, and I took her hand in mine as I spoke, " I am
afraid we ought not to blind ourselves any longer. No woman can,
after a certain age, bring up boys properly. She can train them to be
hypocrites, selfish tyrants, milksops, absorbed students, shy recluses ; but
she cannot educate them to be men. The mother's influence exercised
in her own especial province is almighty for good ; but another influence is needed, and you must send your boys away that they may
be fitted for the battle of life, that when they grow into men you may
be proud instead of ashamed of them. The girl is all your own of
course ”
" Ah ! " she interrupted, " Isobel is more a boy even than Ralph .
She has not an instinct or taste of a girl about her."
At this I laughed outright.
" Mary," I said, " when you were Isobel's age, what were your
instincts and tastes ?"
" I do not remember," she answered. " Mamma never let me have
any, I think. "
" In my opinion you must have greatly resembled your little girl,"
I observed. " But now you must promise me to be brave. You will
try not to be jealous of poor Val.'s influence over your children ; you
will, like a wise little woman, remember you cannot alter human
nature or --"
At this juncture she suddenly withdrew her hand, which, quite unconsciously, I had retained.
" Here they come," she said, and the colour rose in her face as if
she had been doing something eminently wrong ; " I-I will just go
upstairs and bathe my eyes."

And she left the room as Valentine, with that curious expression in
his face I had noticed the first evening of his arrival, came up to the
open French window, and asked me if I would come out for a stroll
and a cigar.
" These lads have quite exhausted me," he explained. "Let us
have a walk for half-an-hour."
" I will go with you," shouted Ralph.
" That you shall not," declared Mr. Waldrum, with commendable
decision ; " I have had quite enough of you for one evening," which
statement was a great relief to me-Ralph's company being about the
last thing I should ever have thought of desiring.
For a time we paced along in silence, then saidValentine, knocking
the ash off his cigar-
" I suppose Mr. Trevor has not been long dead ? "
" Captain Trevor has been dead for many years," I replied.
" Mrs. Trevor still wears very deep mourning, " he remarked.
" I suppose she will do so till the end," I replied.
"The end of what ?" he asked.
" Her life," I said shortly, and then ensued another silence.
" It was the old story, I presume," he began after the pause, " a
love match, an early death ."
" There was no love on her side," I answered; " and Captain Trevor
lived to a sufficient age. It is a tale I have never cared to repeat,
but as there is no secret in Mrs. Trevor's life I will tell you all I know
about it if you like."
" She puzzles me," he replied, and then I understood his curiosity
was piqued.
It did not take me long to finish the narrative. How bald and
naked it seemed when reduced to words, and yet what did the whole
thing mean. Simply the loss of the best part of a woman's life-the
annihilation of youth, hope, love.
He comprehended it all now, even to the Will which rendered it impossible for her to make a better or a worse of the future than the past
had proved. I told him everything, even to my own remorse at the
part I had acted in Winchelsea church.
" We won't talk about this again," he said. " I misjudged you very
much ; I thought you had a tendresse for la belle cousine, but
refrained from speaking, deterred by the idea of losing your liberty
and gaining the boys."
"My dear fellow," I observed, " I love and honour Mrs. Trevor,
but I never was a marrying man ; and if I had been, I am a quarter of
a century at least older than she."
" True,” he said, " I had forgotten that," and we walked back to
Fairy Water in silence.

CHAPTER VIII .

Valentine's First Chance.

SHORTLY after that evening Mr. Valentine Waldrum began to tire of
the country ; he grew weary, I could see, of the still, tranquil, stagnant
life, of the remorselessly monotonous meals, of the utter lack of congenial society, of the riotous fondness of the children, of the gentle
amiability of his hostess, of the uninviting existence, of which nothing
disturbed the routine save the advent of a fresh calf, or the hatching
of a successful brood of chickens .
His spirits, at first so much improved, fell to zero ; his appetite
followed suit, his manners grew restrained, and his face gradually
assumed an expression of penitential weariness. Altogether I did
not feel in the least degree surprised when he announced to me one
morning, after breakfast, that he had received letters which compelled
him to return to town.
" I shall not forget Geoffrey, though, Mrs. Trevor," he said to her
before his departure ; " I will run down as often as I possibly can to
see him."
She knew too little of the world-she was so utterly ignorant of the
ways and doings of that London near " which she had once lived," to
understand fully the extent of the kindness already done by Valentine to her boy, but she was of so grateful and humble a nature that
intuition stood her in almost as good stead as experience.
With a pretty colour in her cheeks and tears in her eyes, with a
sweet simplicity that made me feel very proud of my cousin, and that
I am sure touched Mr. Waldrum sensibly, she thanked him for all he
had already done.
" You have laid me under a debt of gratitude I can never repay,"
she said.
" And Mr. Trevor has laid me under a debt of gratitude I can never
repay, " answered Valentine, frankly. " He has done far far more for
me than I can ever hope to do for him or his."
" Has he really ? I am so glad," she exclaimed, eagerly.
" It was nothing, Mary. He is given to exaggeration," I remarked,
with becoming modesty.
" It is no exaggeration," said Valentine, with a look which reminded
me of his mother. Ah ! well a day, that story was indeed an old one.
" Mrs. Trevor, everything I have I owe to your cousin. If I ever
achieve any fame or success worth speaking of, I can never forget he
gave me the first shove from shore ; he found me at Islington, depressed,
disgusted, eating my heart out, and he put courage into me at once.
had a poor little place down in Essex, which no one would buy, upon
which no one would lend money. He found a friend to purchase it,
and on the strength of that purchase I set up as a West End surgeon,
tried the experiments in which I was interested, wrote a book, and am a
known man, making a fair income. That is all your cousin did for
me," with a satirical expression on the all ; " and as ofcourse it was not
worth remembering, I forgot it immediately."

" Do not pay any attention to what he says, Mary," I intreated ;
" he was a bad boy from the beginning."
" He has been very good to me and mine," she answered, holding
out her hand, which he took reluctantly, as it seemed to me, and released
immediately.
" I will cure the boy if it be in human power to do so," he said, confidently, and thus we parted.
About that time my attention was much engaged concerning a
variety of business letters that were perpetually arriving on the subject
of Crow Hall, nevertheless it certainly struck me as curious that Mary
found nothing to say concerning her late guest.
If I introduced him as a topic of conversation, she listened and tried
to seem interested, but she never voluntarily alluded to his existence.
Of course I understood the reason for her silence-she was jealous
of his influence over her children.
Well, it was natural ; she had only them, and thanks to my cousin
she had lived out her young life, whilst they might have many another
interest beside her ; and had, moreover, their lives all before them.
I could not argue the matter with her ; nevertheless I felt hurt.
When one introduces a friend to a woman, one expects her to evince
some interest in him, more especially when he has tried to serve her
and hers .
My cousin Mary was gracious in manner to Mr. Waldrum, but I
misdoubted me that she was ungrateful in heart ; and he, I think, felt
this, for when he did come down to Fairy Water for his promised
visits to Geoffrey, he made his stay as short as possible, and, always
alleging professional engagements, returned to London with as much
speed as might be.
Meanwhile the words I had spoken to Mrs. Trevor about the boys
bore fruit. She herself suggested a thing I should never have dared
to do, that Ralph should be removed from the mild sway of the neighbouring vicar, and the unrestrained liberty of Fairy Water, to a good
school, the selection of which she left to me.
" I cannot part with them all at once," she said, with a forced
smile ; " but I want to do my duty by them now I understand clearly
which way duty lies."
" You are a dear, good little woman," I exclaimed, delighted to find
that even on the subject of her children she possessed some small share
of that common sense so unusual amongst mothers .
At which outbreak she laughed, and asked if I were certain I really
thought so, which question I answered in the affirmative with some
slight mental reservation.
I had found her good in all relations of life, except it might be in
her non-appreciation of my friend, and after all was she to be blamed
for failing to understand his character ?
It rarely happens that a man's friends take kindly to each other.
Why should Mr. Waldrum and Mrs. Trevor prove exceptions to this
rule?
Besides the strawberry season, there were other festive occasions
and high saint days and holidays, which I had been in the habit of
spending at Fairy Water for more years than there is any necessity to
specify.

Christmas Day, of course ; Shrove Tuesday and Ash Wednesday,
generally ; Mid Lent Sunday occasionally, and Good Friday and Easter
time I may say without exception. Sometimes I ran down about
Whitsuntide for a day or two, and since boyhood I had assisted at the
sacrifice of the traditional goose, the appearance of which, smoking hot
on the domestic board, is supposed to insure good fortune for twelve
months to come. I am not certain that these anniversaries were seasons
of any real festivity to me, but the habit of observing them had been
growing for years, and as Doctor Johnson felt a sense of uneasiness if
he passed one of the familiar posts in Fleet-street without touching it,
so I should have experienced a sensation of mental discomfort had the
days above enumerated come round and found me absent from my
accustomed place.
It was the 28th of September in the same year when I had first
introduced Mr. Waldrum to Fairy Water-how well I remember the
day by reason of what followed after-when Valentine, coming to my
lodging, found me dawdling over the remains of a late breakfast.
" I have called," he said, " to know if I can take any message or
parcel to Mrs. Trevor. I am going to Fairy Water to-morrow."
" I am going there this evening, " I answered. " Come with me and
stay over Sunday."
He demurred to this proposition, but finally agreed that we should
travel together, if I would let him return to town the following afternoon .

" You seem to be as loth to leave London as I am, Val., " I remarked .
" Yes," he said ; " I think it is the only place for a solitary
man."
" You mean, I suppose, that it is the only place where a man need
never feel solitary," I observed.
"You have expressed my meaning better than I did," he answered,
and then fell into a brown study.
" What is the matter ? " I asked, at last ; " what is praying on
your mind now ? "
" Only the loss of a patient," was his reply. " I wonder how old I
shall be before people will believe I have sufficient experience to attend
the upper ten ? "
" Your patient then has left you, not departed this life ? " I commented ; for at first I really imagined a casualty had occurred.
" Oh ! he is not dead," said Valentine. " You know the man, I
mean-Keith, who has just become Sir Henry Keith, and succeeded to
his uncle's estates. He could afford now to pay one a decent fee, and
I suppose that is the reason why he has thought fit to send for Cock."
" Never mind, your turn will come some day," I said, consolingly.
" Yes, when I am too old to care whether it does or not. "
" A man is never too old to be indifferent to success," I replied.
" Besides, Keith is not a patient worth fretting after. He used to be
a poor snob, and now he is a rich one ; that is all. When you begin
to attend the Royal Family he will remember he used to consult you,
and send a polite note to that effect at once. But you may take my
word for it," I proceeded, " you will do no good for yourself unless you
go into general society."

" I have no inclination to enter into general society," he answered ;
and then I understood the old wound was still open, that the previous year had failed to obliterate the memory of that tragedy enacted
at Crow Hall .
When we reached Fairy Water, we found the local doctor sitting
beside the sick boy.
It was he who had written to tell Mr. Waldrum their patient
seemed retrograding, and to judge from the expression of his face,
Geoffrey might have been in articulo mortis.
Mrs. Trevor looked as though she had been crying night and day
for a fortnight previously, and in this cheerful mental atmosphere the
lad's own spirits had fallen to zero.
At a glance almost, Valentine took in the position of affairs.
" You must not distress yourself, Mrs. Trevor," he said ; " Gecffrey
does not seem so well as I should like to find him, certainly, but there
is nothing the matter that cannot be put right very easily."
And then he and Dr. Sloane went into another room and had a long
chat together, whilst I took the first convenient opportunity of telling
Mary what a baby she was, and relieving my own feelings by scolding her.
Next to Isobel, Geoffrey of all the children was my favourite. His
health had prevented his indulging in the riotous pastimes which were
the delight of Master Ralph, and his constant and enforced companionship with his mother had imparted to him somewhat of her gentle,
patient nature ; of the mixture of innocence and thoughtfulness, of
simplicity and wisdom, which rendered her character in my eyes at once
so rare and so attractive.
Iwas concerned for the lad, and unhappy about his mother, for both
of which reasons I was especially hard on Mrs. Trevor for always " looking at the worst side of everything," and " fancying Geoffrey a great
deal more delicate than was really the case," to all of which she listened
with a contented smile.
" You can say what you please now," she answered. " I am easy
now Mr. Waldrum has seen my boy, and assures me he is not dangerously ill."
" We were standing in the conservatory at that moment, she with
her white fingers straying amongst the flowers of a great Oleander tree,
and something, I cannot tell what, prompted me to say-
" You have great faith in Mr. Waldrum, then, Mary ? "
She lifted her eyes to mine-sweet, trustful eyes they were tooas she replied-
" Of course I have implicit faith. "
" In that case do you not think you could manage to be a little
more civil to him ? "
" Civil ! " she repeated ; " Am I not civil to him ? "
" No ; and I fancy he feels your coolness when he is trying to do
all in his power for your child."
She swept one look at me from under the shelter of her long lashes,
and then there came such a sudden and vivid colour into her face, that
for the moment her whole appearance was changed.
" I am very sorry," she said ; " I did not mean to vex you or Mr.
Waldrum. I have not been much in society, and I cannot help feeling
shy with strangers."

" But Valentine ought to be no stranger," I argued ; "to me he
has always been just like a son."
" Ah ! yes, but you have known him so much longer," she answered ;
and then she gathered one of the Oleander buds and put it in her belt,
and tripped out of my sight with a step as light as though she had been
only nineteen instead of nine and twenty.
All that evening she did her best, in a timid, nervous kind of way,
to be more sociable towards Mr. Waldrum, and she joined me most
earnestly-but then this might not have been disinterested-in asking
him to remain over Sunday.
As he positively, and, to my thinking, not very courteously, refused
our invitation, all she could do was to order that the slaughtered goose
should be cooked for an early dinner, so that her guest might partake
of the delicacy before leaving for London.
Next morning came clear, crisp, sunshiny. Valentine and I had
agreed over night we could have a long walk before breakfast, and by
eight o'clock we were standing on an eminence commanding a view of
Low Park, one of the very many residences of the Duke of Severn.
" I should think a man who owned a property like that must find
dying a difficult business," remarked my companion.
" The present Duke is quite a young man," I replied, " I should not
think he can be more than three or four and twenty. I know his aunt,
Lady Mary Carey, and she has often referred to a long minority, during
which the rents have been accumulating, and the young Duke growing
older."
" I wonder how a man feels, who, looking over those woods and
lands, feels they are all his own ? "
" Very much as we do, only without the envy, I imagine," was my
answer, and then we retraced our steps, talking of indifferent subjects
as we did so.
After breakfast, which with me in the country as in London is, I
regret to say, a mere formality, I retired to the library to write letters .
One in especial occupied my attention. It was addressed to the
secretary of a charitable institution, the managers of which wished to
purchase Crow Hall, or, should I desire to retain the hall in my own
possession, a certain number of acres, on which an asylum might be
built, the remainder of the land to be converted into a model farm .
Caution having been the coach that has carried me through life, I
answered : -

" SIR, Your proposal being one requiring serious consideration, I
must request the delay of a month before giving a final answer.
" Your obedient servant,
" H. STAFFORD TREVOR."

This, and some other letters, I determined to post myself-a love of
solitary and surreptitious walks being a peculiarity the country always
developes in me, and, accordingly, without asking any one else in the
house if he or she desired to send any confidential mission by the next
day's mail, I started off to the nearest village all alone.
Just as I was emerging from the entrance gates, a groom in the
Severn livery, driving a horse covered with foam, pulled up.
"Beg pardon, sir, but is Mr. Waldrum at your house ? "

" I think he is in, " I replied ; " what do you want with him ? "
Already the horse was trotting up the avenue as fast as he knew
how, but the man shouted back-
"Duke ! Sloane ! brains ! "
" It will keep, whatever the matter may prove," thought I, and
walked on to the office .
When I returned Mary met me in a pretty flutter. " What do
you think," she said, clasping her hands through my arm, "Mr.
Waldrum has been sent for to Low Park . "
" What is wrong there ? "
" The Duke's gun exploded. He is dangerously injured."
" That is a chance at last for Val .," I said.
" How worldly you are," she expostulated.
" Surely, my dear, if the Duke likes to meet with accidents, my
friend may as well have the benefit of them as not."
" Of course," she agreed ; " but what a dreadful thing to happen. "
" What has happened ? " I asked.
" Something to his eyes, and head, and hand," was the lucid reply.
" Clearly the goose is not roasting in vain."
" Oh, how can you !" she said, and went away, her handkerchief to
her eyes, crying about the injuries of a man she had never seen.
It struck me then, as it has struck me since, that the feminine
temperament is one which possesses much more of theoretical than of
practical sympathy .
One o'clock chimed, two o'clock in due time followed suit, Valentine
came not, and I was growing hungry.
" My dear," said I, " about that goose ? "
" You imagine Mr. Waldrum will be detained," she remarked.
"Nothing more probable."
" Shall we wait a quarter of an hour longer ? "
" An hour if you like," which I consider was magnanimous, since
hunger was gnawing at my vitals.
Ten minutes, twenty, thirty, forty minutes ticked their way onwards, and Mary was miserable. She had always considered me and
me only, and now another guest claimed her courtesy and her patience.
" Oh ! " at last she exclaimed, and that " oh," meant a whole
thanksgiving service, as she heard the sound of wheels coming up the
drive ; "here he is."
" Softly, my dear," I remarked, and, arranging my double eye-glass
comfortably on my nose, I beheld a phaeton drawn by a pair of ponies
dashing over the gravel, containing not Mr. Waldrum, but certainly
the very last person I desired to see at Fairy Water, Lady Mary Carey.
I am not often taken with a sudden tremor, it is not an usual
thing with me to feel my head shaken down into my heart, and my heart
shaken up into my head ; but when I beheld that woman, lolling back
in the phaeton, scanning with her great eyes my cousin's modest home,
my spirit sank within me.
At what precise period of the world's history any member of the
Severn family intermarried with a negro, or cast back to African blood,
no one could imagine, and yet anything more like an Anglo negress
than Lady Mary, sister to the late, and aunt to the present Duke of
Severn, never was beheld in England.

She had the thick, wiry hair, the wide nostrils, the eager, wondering
eyes, the protuberant lips of Mrs. Stowe's chosen race. Her skin was
mottle-brown and yellow, her figure like nothing save a bundle of
clothes tied up for the laundress ; she was acquisitive beyond belief, and
impertinent and insolent beyond description.
She could not be in the company of a stranger for an hour without
giving utterance to some insult. She never knew a person for a week
without soliciting some favour or demanding a present. She had
divorced one husband, she had worried another into his grave, expecting
he would leave her all his money.
In which expectation she was disappointed. As she told the story
to everyone there can be no indiscretion in my repeating it.
Mr. Carey made a will, bequeathing to his dearly beloved wife the
whole of his fortune, excepting such and such legacies to such and
such people, and he placed this document in Lady Mary's hands.
Aweek subsequently he executed another will, which he left in the
hands of his solicitors, leaving her ladyship a life annuity of only three
thousand a year.
Upon the strength of this annuity of three thousand, and her own
small fortune, Lady Mary led, as best she could, the life of a fashionable
woman.

She had her receptions, her afternoons, her concerts, her evenings,
her small dinners, and to them every one who could obtain an invitation
repaired. What did her plainness, her meanness, her insolence matter ?
Was she not the sister of one Duke, the aunt of another ? was it not
rather an honour to be snubbed by her ? whilst to be taken under her
especial protection, and addressed by one's Christian name, were marks
of distinction so great that they necessarily produced feelings of envy,
hatred, and all uncharitableness in those less favoured by fortune.
To me Lady Mary had proved uniformly good-natured. I had been
useful to her ; I might be useful still. She called me " Stafford. "
She got me to dance with girls who knew no one, and girls whom men
did not care to know. She commanded my attendance at a new piece,
or to the opera. She took my arm as if she paid me a salary for its
use ; and she treated me like a friend of the house.
Once she conceived a fancy for my studs, and asked me to give them
to her, as they were just what she thought she should like to fasten her
cuffs ; and within a week, she decided some charms I had foolishly
attached to my chain were the very things she had been seeking for
without success.
After that time she searched my person in vain for any trifle to
annex. Except for the benefit of her butler, she could not ask me to
give her a coat ; and he, indeed, was a gentleman of so corpulent a
build, that it would have required three or four of my garments to
encase his portly form.
It was not often Lady Mary met with a rebuff. People were too
much afraid of her tongue and herself to adventure upon trying the
experiment ; but once I did see a daring shot between wind and water,
It was fired in this wise. Lady Mary had conceived a violent
friendship for an authoress of some literary reputation, who was styled
by those who admired her person less than her genius, " Rags and
Bones." "Rags," because she never had a new gown on her back,

" Bones," because whatever flesh might, in years gone by, have covered
the framework of her body had long disappeared.
Accompanied by this eccentric person, my lady went out one
evening to a party, where she met a fresh authoress, who had not
as yet forgotten how to put on her clothes, or ceased to recollect that
men had once thought her pretty.
Said my lady, after the first amenities were over : " How strange
to think you write ! I always was led to believe literary ladies " (and
her glance wandered to " Rags and Bones ") "were perfectly indifferent to their personal appearance indeed, held themselves superior
to the adventitious aid of dress ."
Said the authoress, without a change of countenance : " It is never
safe to generalize upon a class from an individual-otherwise I might
say, no lady of quality was acquainted with the most ordinary rules of
politeness."
A dead silence followed after this speech, which Lady Mary broke
by a forced laugh .
" You will do, my dear," she said, patting the fair shoulder with
ahand like that of a prizefighter. "Heaven has given you a tongue,
and the wit to use it."
Next day I beheld my lady and the new favourite driving in
the Park, vice poor, clever, modest, unassuming " Rags and Bones,"
cashiered.
I met her afterwards .
"You know, dear Mr. Trevor," she said-and I could not help
noticing her ill-fitting boots, her terrible bonnet, her gloves which
wantedmending " I can write much better than that woman; but she
has a way of saying things, and Lady Mary has taken her up."
"Yes," I replied, " and, after a short time, Lady Mary will let her
drop."
"Ah ! Mr. Trevor ; you are always so nice," said the elderly young
lady; and she went home better satisfied.
There was one good thing, however, about Lady Mary. If she
lashed other people, she never was nice about applying the whip to
herself.
" I know what I am," she would say. " I have always known
that. From my earliest youth, I have never thought of myself as
otherwise than plain-ugly, if you will. I do not hate other women
because they are pretty, fair, graceful, grateful to men's eyes. I hate
them because they are such fools ; because they are so petty, so jealous,
so frivolous, so false ; because if they are clever, they have no hearts ;
and if they have hearts, they are utterly destitute of head. Of course,
I am obliged to know them, visit, receive them. No woman-not even
a woman of my age, my rank, and my appearance-can afford to do
without them. But I cannot love le beau sexe ; and, as I am unable to
do so, it is useless to affect the feeling. "
With all her faults, Lady Mary was no hypocrite, no false friend,
no plausible dissembler ; and yet, as I said before, it made me turn
almost sick to see her drive up to Fairy Water.
Under the circumstances, I would just as soon, or rather, have
beheld Beelzebub-horns, tail, cloven hoof, blue flame, and all the
other orthodox properties.

R. CALDECOTT, DEL. EDMUND EVANS, SC.

" " How do, Stafford ? "
T

" Great Heaven ! " I exclaimed. " It is Lady Mary Carey ! "
" And who is she ? " asked the other Mary, so different from the
great woman who had come to invade our modest home .
" She is the Duke's aunt," I replied. Of course, in that primitive
region, there was but one Duke known to fame. " You must not mind
anything she may say, Mary. She means nothing by her random talk."
At that instant, the door opened.
"How do, Stafford ?" said my lady, walking across the room as
unconcernedly as if she had been in the habit of visiting at Fairy Water
all her life. " No, you need not introduce me, thank you. You, I am
sure," she went on, addressing my cousin, " must be Mrs. Trevor ; and
I am Lady Mary Carey."
Having finished which sentence, she held out her hand for Mary to
take if she liked. Mary did like ; but, finding her ladyship made no
attempt to shake hers, released the great hand with a promptitude
which savoured of fear.
Lady Mary looked at her from the tips of her shoes to the widow's
cap, which had she never laid aside, which I felt satisfied she never
would, then turned to me and said-
" So I have found you out at last, sir. This is the meaning of those
disappearances which have puzzled every one ; of those mysterious visits
you were perpetually paying to vague male relatives. Well, it is said
that stillwaters run deep, with a very undesirable gentleman lying at
the bottom ; but I would not have believed it of you, Stafford. I never
could have credited you would turn out so shy and selfish, as to keep
your pretty cousin's existence a secret from all your friends. "
" Lady Mary, " I answered gravely, " my cousin, or indeed, I might
almost say my daughter, has been so little in the world, that she is
ignorant of the meaning of fashionable badinage, and I am sure you are
too good-natured to vex her with it."
" I am a sweet, good-natured creature when I am not angry," said
Lady Mary, " so I will not vex-your daughter," with a little ringing
emphasis on the word ; " Mrs. Trevor," she went on, " I have come to
tell you that Mr. Waldrum cannot return to dinner, or any other meal
here to-day. My precious nephew has somehow inanaged to rid himself of two fingers, one eye, and narrowly escaped lodging the remaining
contents of his fowling piece in that part of his anatomy which the
surgeons politely term his brain. It is, therefore, necessary, at least so
his mother thinks, that your friend should remain in attendance for the
present. Such a house ! " continued Lady Mary, lifting up her
hands in horror at the memory. " All the guests who have any place
to go, going ; those who have not, trying to look unconscious that they
are in the way. Miss Vinon, to whom my nephew is engaged,
came tearing across country the moment she heard the news, on a
great black horse, attended by a frightened groom. She has been crying at intervals and taking Mr. Waldrum's hands, and imploring him
to save Egerton, ever since her arrival. Of course it is a matter of
importance to her, since it is in the last degree improbable she would ever
again meet another duke, so young, foolish, and desirable as my nephew.
Now, Mrs. Trevor, if you will kindly ask me to dine with you, I shall
accept the invitation with pleasure. A house of mourning is not, as
you are doubtless aware, a house of feasting except to the servants ; and

I for one do not care for tears, swollen eyes, and red cheeks as accompaniments to a banquet."
Trembling as if she were going to execution, Mary invited her ladyship to stay for dinner, and to take off her bonnet.
When she came down again, I considered it my duty to state the
proposed repast was not likely to suit her taste. I reminded her the
twenty-ninth of September was the feast of St. Michael and all angels.
" I think," she interrupted, " it is better known amongst modern
heathens as quarter day."
" When tenants no doubt formerly propitiated their landlords with a
present of a young fat goose, fresh from the stubble-fields," I added,
acknowledging her intervention with a bow. "And in the country,
to this present day, a sacrifice of one of the birds which saved Rome is
deemed propitious to those who assist at the rite, and calculated to ensure
a certain amount of good fortune during the ensuing twelve months."
" Which means in plain English, you have a goose for dinner, I
suppose. What a tiresome prosy creature you are, Stafford. Have
you not known me long enough to come to the point at once, withoutany nonsenical circumlocution. You have a goose and I am delighted
to hear it. I am weary of the orthodox ménu, and shall be charmed to
meet with a sensible pièce de resistance once more."
We three dined together. Mary had provided other good things
besides that plump bird, of which I believed I should never hear the
last; and I am bound to say our visitor didjustice to all of them.
" That is where you middle-class people have the advantage over us,"
she said calmly, when I had helped her a second time to the dish of the
dinner. " You can live as you like, eat as you like, sleep as you like,
do what you like. I could not have a dinner such as this served up to
me in my own house if I prayed for it. How very thankful you ought to
feel, dear Mrs. Trevor, that you were not born in the shadow of the
purple."
" I do feel very thankful," answered Mary, with a promptness which
astonished me.
" I daresay the habits of our rank would seem irksome to you."
" My experience of any rank but my own has been extremely
limited, but judging from that, I should say they would seem irksome
in the extreme ."
I looked at Mary imploringly, and our guest caught the look .
" Let her have her say, Stafford," she observed, " it delights me to
listen to the untutored frankness of an unsophisticated mind. What a
brute your husband must have been, my dear, to tie you to perpetual
widowhood. You, so young, so naive, so pretty."
" My husband did what he thought was best for me and his
children," retorted Mary, tears filling her eyes, the colour coming up
in her cheeks, and all her mind and body rising in battle array against
the calm insolence of Lady Mary's style.
"That is a proposition the truth of which no one, I imagine, would
dispute," answered her ladyship; and then she glanced at me, and
laughed as one might at the babble of a child .
" She is very fresh and nice is she not ? " she remarked. " Who can
tell what aday may bring forth ? I had no idea this day would produce
anything like Mrs. Trevor ; " and then she changed the subject from personal to general topics, and Mary
try sat listening in amazementwhilst she
discussed the latest scandal ; told me of the marriages which had been
arranged or were to be ; retailed the latest anecdote, which had
generally something hidden in its point I trusted Mary would fail to
understand ; and then the wretched meal being over, and dessert placed
on the table, she turned to my cousin, and said with that coolness which
she always informed me was one of the attributes of good birth,-
" I am sure, Mrs. Trevor, you must be longing to get back to your
children. Do not let me detain you, not on any account, I beg. I
want to have five minutes' private coversation with your father
before I go ."
With a face which somehow combined the expressions of a criminal
who has received a reprieve and a child who has been slapped, Mary
left the room. Her ladyship waited till I had closed the door after
her, and then drew her chair a little nearer to mine.
She lifted her hand, and brought it with no light weight down on
my arm.
" Stafford Trevor," she said, " I never thought you were a fool
before. I tell you you are one now."
I drew away my arm, and looked at her just so she informed me
subsequently-as though I had been a thief, and seen in her a policeman, armed with authority and provided with handcuffs, standing at
my elbow."
No, it is not that," she went on. " I do not quarrel with the
affection you feel for that simple creature. There is no harm in it that
I am aware of. Do not fear that I shall ever suggest there is. I cau
see no fun in putting serpents into doves' nests. But foryou, Stafford
-you whom I have always considered, if not a wise man, at least
something better than a simpleton-to make the egregious mistake
you have done, I feel ashamed of you. There ! " and she pushed me
away from her with a strength of muscle and freedom of its development which would not have been thought tender in a prize fighter.
" What have I done, Lady Mary ? " I inquired. " Into what mistake
have I fallen ?"
She brought her head round, and peered in my face curiously.
" You really have not an idea ? " she said.
" Not the faintest idea, on my honour. "
"Do you mean to say you don't know that handsome Waldrum
is in love with your cousin ? ”
" Good God, no ! " I exclaimed, appalled at the very suggestion.
" Such energy of expression is needless," she observed, in a tone of
quiet banter which almost drove me to the verge of insanity. " Nor,"
she went on, " that your pretty cousin is in love with him ?"
I covered my face with my hands, and groaned actually groaned.
Never had I known Lady Mary's intuition in such matters at fault.
" What makes you think this ? " I asked, at last.
She laughed outright.
"What makes me think the rivers flow to the sea, the sun shines,
the rain falls, the wind blows ; I see, feel, hear ? When he said he
wanted to get back to dinner, I noticed an inflection in his voice, a look
in his face. When I spoke to her of him, I saw his look reflected in
her expression. What have you to say now, sir, why you, a man who

ought to know something of the world, have failed so signally in your
charge of a young widow entrusted to you for safe keeping ? "
"Nothing. If this be so, I have been worse than mad-criminal ! "
" If! I tell you it is. What can be done ? "
" Nothing.'
" Cannot they marry ? "
" No, it is impossible."
" Well, your young man had better not come here again. "
" He came to see her sick boy."
" The boy must get well, then. "
" Oh ! Mary," I cried, " I hoped this would never, never be."
If the aunts of fifty dukes had been present at the moment, I could
not have helped that expression of feeling.
" Do you mean to say there is no loophole of escape out of the
terms of that man's ridiculous will ? "
" None, whatever ; and even if there were ?"
" Well, what is the other obstacle ? "
" I began a sentence I cannot very well finish," I replied.
" Oh ! you mean that story about Waldrum's father, I suppose. I
heard something of it from the Conynghams ; and now that brings me
to the second object of my visit, or, I suppose, I should say, my first,
considering it concerns myself. You have got a quiet out-of-the-way
sort of little place in Essex. "
" Yes. But, Lady Mary, how does it happen you know everything
about my cousin, and me, and the Waldrums ?"
She broke into a fit of laughter .
" The explanation is very simple," she said, when she recovered her
composure. " Excuse my laughing, but you look so astonished-so
slow, in fact, that the temptation is irresistible. This morning my
nephew went out very early with a shooting party. I do not know
whether he hit the animal at which he fired, but he certainly succeeded
in maiming himself. We sent at once for Doctor Sloane, and telegraphed to London for a surgeon. Doctor Sloane came, and so did a
reply to the telegram-' Mr. — is in Switzerland. Before the telegram reached us, however, Doctor Sloane had begged me to send for
a Mr. Waldrum, who was staying at Fairy Water, Mrs. Trevor's place.
The name struck me, and I asked for further information. In five
minutes I had turned the poor Doctor's mind inside out. I was
acquainted with the contents of your cousin's will. I had listened to
an earnest eulogy of Mrs. Trevor as wife, mother, woman. I heard
you were guardian to the children. I knew all about the eldest boy's
illness and Mr. Waldrum's visits, which he only paid because of his
friendship towards you. Then the man himself appeared. After he
had seen his patient, and done what he could for him ; after he had
quieted the Duchess and released himself from Miss Vinor, who
made a great deal more fuss over her grief with him than would have
been the case had he been older and uglier, I secured Mr. Waldrum's
ear for a few minutes. I reminded him we had met before, which we
had at the Conynghams. I told him I had watched his rise with great
interest; that, you know, is always a safe card to play, no matter what
the suit may be. I assured him you were the oldest and dearest friend I
had in the world ; that, in all the troubles and anxieties of my life, I

felt I could depend uponyou for advice and assistance. That touched
him sensibly, I could see," added Lady Mary.
Of course, Iknew her ladyship was now playing what she considered
a good card to delude me ; but I could only take her remark as a
compliment, and bow in acknowledgment.

Finally, I spoke of Mrs. Trevor, and then I knew what I have
confided to your ear. That is the mystery of part one. As to part
two : the Conynghams told me you had bought a place to which, when
weary of the world, you had for years been in the habit of retiring to
enjoy the company of bats, owls, and ghosts. So secret were you in the
matter that no one suspected you were the actual owner, until quite
recently."
" Yes," I said. It was a stupid expression, but I felt so dazed
with her ladyship's flow of words-I felt so tired and harassed by the
steady stare of her ladyship's black eyes. I was so utterly takenby surprise at the nature of her communications and extent of her information, that I could only sit still and listen and say " Yes " like an idiot,
when she paused to take breath.
" And now, Stafford, I want you to do something for me."
This was a formula with which I had good reason to be well
acquainted, and accordingly it landed me on familiar ground at once,
but before I could answer her black brows lowered, and she said :
" You are not going to refuse me, I hope."
" When did I ever refuse to do anything for you, Lady Mary, which
it was in my power to accomplish ?" I inquired, soothingly.
" Never," she agreed. You were always a good kind soul, and I
know you will not raise any ridiculous objections to the plan I am
about to propose. In a word, I want you to let me rent that hermitage
of yours in Essex for three months."
" What ? Crow Hall ! " I exclaimed.
" I do not know what the name of the place is, and I do not care.
I know it will serve the purpose I have in view. Listen to me, Stafford.
I do not mind telling you the whole secret. I have got into a scrape ;
I have lost a great deal of money. I am in debt to an extent I am
afraid to contemplate. I sold my house in town-furniture and alljust as it stood, and came down here two days ago, intending to
ask Egerton's assistance, and then reside abroad for a few years to
retrench. Mr. Carey left what he did leave to me so tied up that I
cannot sell or anticipate even a year's income."
I sat stunned. Mean though she was, Lady Mary had always borne
the character of being extremely liberal to and extravagant on herselffurther, she was very speculative ; but still I had never dreamed she
would get into a mess like this.
That she was ruined I understood perfectly ; that the accident which
had happened to her nephew precluded all hope of assistance from him
for a considerable time to come was equally clear ; but how she meant
to get out of her difficulties was as great an enigma to me as the fancy
she had taken for carrying her perplexities and herself to Crow Hall.
" I cannot imagine--" I began, but she immediately interrupted
me with-
" I know you cannot, you dear creature ; but I will explain everything to you if you only remain quiet. It is clearEgerton is out of the

question for a considerable period, so since there is nothing to be
expected from that quarter, I have thought of another plan, which,
however, I cannot perfect and carry out except in some lonely place
like your Crow Hall ; so name your rent, we shall not quarrel over
a few pounds, and tell me when I can enter into possession."
" My dear Lady Mary," said I, fairly floated out of my usual depth
by the torrent of her impetuosity, " if I thought you could possibly
exist in Crow Hall, I should beg permission to place it at your disposal
for any length of time you liked to name, but I am certain you could
not."
"Why not ? " she demanded.
" It is utterly removed from civilization."
" So much the better for me."
" There is no furniture in the house suited to your requirements. "
" You do not know what my requirements are, or whether I want
any furniture, " she retorted.
" Even if there were accommodation for servants, none of your
people would remain at Crow Hall for three days."
" Andrews would, and I have discharged all the rest. Now, what
other objection have you to urge ?"
" Only one, " I said. " The place is haunted."
" That decides the matter. When can I have possession ? "
" I am serious," I persisted. " Indeed I am. Do you imagine,
Lady Mary," I went on, noticing her incredulous smile, " that I would
say such a thing in jest ? I have never even mentioned my idea to any
one. Naturally, I do not wish to lose money by my purchase, and if
it were known I attached any importance to the stories which have
so long hung about the place, my chance of eventually disposing of it
would be poor indeed. But there is something ' uncanny' about Crow
Hall. I would not deceive you on that or any other subject."
Her smile had never departed.
" What have you seen ?" she asked.
" Nothing, " I replied.
" What have you heard ?"
" The rustle of a woman's dress ."
" What have you felt ? "
" A sense of oppression as though some one were in the room
with me."
After that she sat silent for a few moments . Then she said :
" We will strike a bargain, Stafford. I will exorcise your ghost,
and you may refer anyone to me for the character of Crow Hall. Upon
the other hand, I may inhabit it for twelve months free of rent. Is it
agreed ?"
I hesitated. I could not be blind to the advantages I might derive
from Lady Mary's tenancy. I did not believe any phantom would
trouble her repose, since late dinners, late hours, and a decided liking
for good wines are not generally compatible with the seeing of ghosts
and viewing of spectres. Nevertheless I could not choose but hesitate.
"Suppose evil come of it," I thought ; and that thought shows how
thoroughly impressed I was with the weird legends circulated concerning Crow Hall .
" Well, is it decided ?" said her ladyship.

" Lady Mary," I replied, " I wish you would not go to Crow Hall.
If I had a dozen places they should all, as you know, be at your disposal. But I do not like your going to that house. You might see
nothing to alarm you, but you might--"
"What a goose you are, Stafford," she interrupted. " I shall see
nothing half so bad as my debts and my duns, be sure of that. So write
to the person in charge. He or she need not leave. Say you have let
the place-it is unnecessary to mention my name and that I may be
expected next Thursday. Yes ; Thursday will do very well indeed.
And now I must go, Where is little Mrs. Trevor ? I want to bid her
good-bye."
My cousin came into the hall to see our visitor off.
" Thank you so much for your kindness," she said to Mary, carelessly ;
then moved, Heaven only knows by what feeling of pity or sympathy,
or perhaps it might be by the sweet, sad repose of that patient face, my
lady, stooping from her high estate, kissed her on both cheeks, and
saying, "You are a dear little soul," hurried off to the phaeton, andwas
driven away.

CHAPTER IX .

Lady Mary's Experiences.
VALENTINE came next day to Fairy Water to tell us all about his new
patient, and to have a look at Geoffrey, who, to Mary's intense relief,
was decidedly better.
Twenty-four hours' reflection had satisfied me that if I tried to put
my oar into the difficulty presented on the previous afternoon, I should
probably catch a crab, and I therefore decided to let matters proceed
without my interference. Perhaps Lady Mary had been mistaken,
perhaps she had not ; in either case, what good could my interference
effect ? In the one, I might put love-lorn ideas into the heads of innocent
people ; in the other, I might, by precipitate speaking, crystallize a notion
which would otherwise have remained permanently in solution.
No ; if Val was in love with my cousin, he could not be considered
otherwise than old enough and wise enough to keep away from Fairy
Water. Thinking the matter over, it occurred to me he had done so
as far as he could, and I determined to give him another opportunity.
" I shall be passing through town on Tuesday, Val .," I said. " Can
I do anything for you ? "
" Thank you, no," he answered ; " I must be in London to-morrow,
and was just going to ask you the same question."
" You want further advice for the Duke," I suggested, and he said-
" Yes, I think he ought to see some one more experienced than
myself. As matters stand, it is a great responsibility."
" Doubtless," I remarked, but if he noticed the sneer he refrained
from comment.
After all, Val. Waldrum was a very nice sort of fellow. No matter
how grievously out of sorts a man might be no matter how rude he
proved in consequence, Val. took no notice ; he talked on just as usual ;
he either did not or would not see that with all my heart I wished him

at Low Park or anywhere else, so long as it was beyond the gates of
" Never mind," I thought, " he cannot, if he have any sense left,
come here often in my absence, and by the time I return he will most
probably be able to leave his patient to Sloane."

Mary," I said, out loud, " I want you to give me a pair of swans."
Both Mrs. Trevor and Valentine looked at me in amazement.
" Swans," repeated the latter ; " where do you propose to keep them ? "
" Not in my lodgings, you may be quite certain," I answered.
" But I do not require them yet ; I may not require them at all. "
" He is thinking of being married, depend upon it," exclaimed
Valentine.
Mary looked at me curiously.
" No," I said, " I am certainly not likely to walk into matrimony
with my eyes open, and I do not think any man can be held excused
who drifts into it."
" I am not quite certain of that," said Valentine ; " many a good
vessel has gone ashore merely because ignorant of the dangers of the
coast."
" Perhaps so," I answered, " but matrimony is a coast from which I
should think any prudent captain would keep at a safe distance."
A curious look came into Valentine's eyes. I had said the very
thing I had purposed not to say, and he divined there was a second
meaning underlying my words.
He rose and walked to one of the windows with a " Humph," which
was, I am sure, involuntary, and I heard him rattling the keys in his
pockets, as I feel glad to remember I have often heard him since those
days rattling sovereigns.
" Well," he said, at last, " I suppose I must be riding back to my
noble patient. I hope we shall save his eyesight after all. "
" Oh ! do ; pray, pray do ! " exclaimed Mary, whose sympathy was
of course much exercised in those days in favour of the young man,
with whom it was almost a toss-up, whether he would be blind for life
or not.

At sight of the eager, pleading face, Valentine smiled, as he answered,
" It does not rest with me, but you may be sure I shall do my best for
him, if only for the sake of his fiancée, who is the sweetest and most
beautiful girl I ever beheld. "
He had spoken without the least thought of what a sweeping
sasertion his words implied, but I could see Mary's colour come and go,
heighten and fade, at hearing such unqualified admiration expressed
concerning another woman.
It was true then ; it was. She had escaped all these years, and now,
when her youth was fading away, when she might reasonably have been
expected to go on living without other than the vaguest ideas of what
love meant-through my instrumentality, through my folly and shortsightedness, that knowledge had come to her, from which I had vainly
hoped she would be kept for ever.
I went to the front door with Valentine. When I would have bid
him good-bye, he laid his hand on my shoulder and said-
"Awise man can take a hint ; nevertheless you might have spoken
plainly to me had you liked. Rest satisfied, when once my latest

patient can dispense with my attendance, Fairy Water shall see me no
more."
Next morning I departed for Crow Hall, and remained there until
Lady Mary's arrival.
Although I had made preparations for her comfort and reception, I
could not say I felt at all certain she would adhere to her resolution,
and it was therefore with feelings of mingled relief and anxiety that I
saw the solitary fly, which the nearest town boasted, turn into the
drive.
" Now, Stafford, this is kind ! " exclaimed her ladyship. "How
sweet of you to come all this distance on my account. What a
delicious old house."
" I only hope," I said, in a low tone, " you will be able to remain
in it."
She laughed in reply, and then after grumbling a little because I
refused to stay for dinner, allowed me to depart in the fly, which I had
detained for the purpose.
" I wonder," I thought, as the wretched vehicle jogged and jolted
along the road, " what the next chapter in the history of Crow Hall will
bring forth ? "
It was a cold, wet, blustering October evening when I returned to
Fairy Water. As my movements were uncertain, I had told Mary not
to send to the station to meet me, and as no conveyance of any kind
could, in that benighted region, be procured, there was nothing left for
me to do except walk every step of the six miles that lay between the
railway and my cousin's house.
Being on foot it was not necessary for me to make my way through
the entrance gates and up the long avenue, and accordingly opening a door in the fence surrounding that part of the property which
abutted on the road leading to the nearest town, I struck into the
shrubbery paths, and soon reached Mary's own especial garden, a
funny little place laid out in the Dutch style, which she kept in order
herself, and of which she was, as I often told her, extravagantly proud.
Keeping along the gravelled walk, with a thick hedge of yew
low and close clipped, I came to what we called the water-side of
the house, which brought me in a few seconds to the conservatory
I have mentioned .
As usual, the door was unlocked ; in that far-away region bolts and
bars were at a discount, and turning the handle I entered.
Cold as I was, and cheerless as had been my walk, the sight of
the fire-light dancing on the walls of the pleasant drawing-room,
reflecting itself from mirrors, gleaming on the pictures, was very pleasant, and gave me a comfortable, home-like feeling, and advancing to
the inner door, I pushed the heavy curtains, which were only partially drawn aside, and looked in.
I am not given to play the spy ; eavesdropping is a thing repugnant both to my feelings and my principles. What I heard and saw
when I thrust back those curtains deprived me of the power of speech
and movement. On the hearthrug stood two people : the one Mary,
the other Valentine .
" Then you will trust him to me," he said, and there was sadness
as well as tenderness in his tone.

I could not catch her answer, if indeed she uttered one ; but I did
see her face uplifted for a moment to his ; the next he held her in his
arms, and her head drooped against his breast. It was only for an
instant ; then they parted as if by some mutual recoil.
" Forgive me, dear." I heard that. " For all the world could offer,
Iwould not this had happened. "
She did not speak a word, she only flitted away. She did not see
me, she understood nothing save her joy and her sorrow-I grasped all
that.
Straight up to Mr. Waldrum I went " Do you think this right ? "
I asked.
" No," he answered.
" I trusted you."
" I think not," he said ; " if you had foreseen this you would have
kept us asunder."
" That is true." I almost whispered the words.
" Not," he went on, " that for one moment I wish to throw the
blame off my own shoulders and lay it on those of any other. I, and I
only, am to blame. I have known what it all meant to me long before
you suspected anything. I tried to fight the battle, and this is the
result. " He walked to the door.
" Stay a moment, " I entreated.
" Not to-night ; I will write to you and her. I will see you soon,
but not here," and he was gone, the son of my heart and my adoption.
Next day the promised letters came one for Mary, one for me.
She took hers away to some safe sanctuary, I read mine where all the
world might see. It was simple enough. The few lines it contained
were to the effect that, feeling how dangerous his visits to Fairy Water
were becoming to himself, how necessary it was to Geoffrey's recovery
he should be under the eye of a surgeon who had made disease a speciality, he rode over to see Mrs. Trevor and obtain her consent to
removing her son to his house in London.
" That is how it all came about," he finished, " I give you my word
-I pledge you my honour."
" Poor Val. ! " I sighed, and put the letter in my pocket-book.
An hour afterwards Mary appeared. She was more than usually
solicitous for my comfort, she was more than usually kind and gentle.
" Mary, dear," I said, when we were quite alone.
Turning her face away, she answered, " Yes," and came close up to
where I stood.
"You had a letter from Valentine Waldrum this morning," I began,
leading her to a seat, " show it to me."
She hesitated, poor little soul ; it was her first love-letter from a
man she loved, and it seemed sacred in her eyes, as though she were
still a girl, with the world's cares and the world's sorrows all before her.
" I want to see it, dear," I said, firmly, " in order to understand
whether in the future he and I are to be friends or foes, whether I shall
still be able to respect him or feel for him a contempt no words can
express."
Without another attempt at expostulation, she put the letter in my
hand, and then she sat down beside me and watched the expression of
my face, like a child or a dog.

R. CALDECOTT, DEL. EDMUND EVANS. SC.

" The next moment he held her in his arms . "
P. 80 .

F

When I had finished, she put her hand on my hand, laid her face
on my arm, and broke out sobbing.
" Do not blame him or me," she said, " I did not know what it
meant ; I could not tell what it was. If I had, I should have stopped
it long ago."
I let her cry-crying always does women good ; it comforts them,
and, in moderation, makes their eyes brighter. While she cried I
endeavoured to solve a mental problem-
" Suppose Geoffrey had left her free, should I not have tried to win
her."
Emphatically yes. I understood that now-understood it when she
was breaking her heart about a man young enough to be my son, and
sobbing out her misery within about four inches of my heart.
Well, we cannot be young always ; but the unfortunate thing is the
right person for us seems to be born always so long after she ought to
come into the world.
" You know what you have to do now, Mary," I suggested, after a
few minutes devoted to sentiment on her part, and abstruse reflections
on mine.
" Tell me," she whispered.
" I should prefer hearing it from you," I remarked.
She clasped her hands together, and said, like a child repeating
some easy lesson-
" I must never see him again, or hear from him, or write to him,
or think of him, if I can help doing so."
I drew her to me, lifted the fair, tear-stained face, and kissed it,
Heaven be my witness, as a woman might kiss that of her sister, a
father that of his child .
" God help you, Mary," I said ; " you will get over this in time,
but meanwhile it is hard to bear ; your pain must be cruel.”
She put up her hand and stroked my face, as though to assure me
although the pain might be cruel, she could endure.
Never, my dear, never have I known so womanly a woman as yourself-so truly feminine a nature as that possessed by you .
Well, well- I grow garrulous, perhaps. Let me hasten on to the end.
Shortly after that evening I left Fairy Water, Geoffrey in my
charge. The easiest chariot from Low Park took him to the station.
The Duke of Severn's footmen, directed and assisted by Valentine,
carried the sick lad to the invalid carriage provided for him.
Twice a week I went to Valentine's house, and saw the invalidtwice a week I was, after a short time, able to send a good report of
the boy back to Fairy Water.
By this time I was once more settled in London. With the exception of a few days at Christmas, I did not intend to leave my lodgings
again for six months. The familiar fogs enveloped me, the gas-lights
which my soul loved tried vainly to dissipate the worse than Egyptian
darkness of the deserted streets. Through the dull atmosphere the cries
of " Walnuts,” “ Muffins," " Crumpets," resounded with the effect of
muffled drums, and there was a pervading feeling in the air, as if the
sun had taken a fancy to remain in a state of perpetual eclipse, while
the moon, femininely anxious to follow in the fashion and his wake
had decided to do likewise.
4§

At that period of the year I usually dined with people who thought
it somewhat of an honour to secure my company, and therefore, though
I rarely spent an evening alone, I was generally bored in the evening.
After all, a man need not be a snob, if he says frankly he prefers
the society of people who live west of Bond Street to that of the worthy
individuals who keep up ponderous establishments in the central London squares .
From Lady Mary Carey I received letters by the dozen. She was
so charmed with the place, the neighbourhood, the people would I
kindly call at so-and-so, and order such-and-such articles to be forwarded to her ? She did not apologise ; she did not ask pardon for the
trouble she gave. How could she ? Had she not tested the depth, and
breadth, and length of my goodness (all in feminine italics) for a greater
number of years than any woman save myself " would care to remember ? ”
I had told her it was my intention to send down a couple of swans,
so as to lessen the weird desolation of the pine-circled pool ; but shortly
after taking possession of Crow Hall, she wrote, asking me to defer
doing so till she discovered whether the water in the lake sunk much
lower.
The summer had been unusually dry and warm ; all through the
country complaints were rife concerning the drying-up of springs and
failing of streams ; and it did not strike me as singular that the fated
pool should suffer as she described.
It seemed, however, very singular to her-so singular, that she sent
me bulletins on the subject twice a week, at all events.
" I am told," she wrote, " that for a century, at all events, the
water in this little lake of yours has never been lower than the root of
a certain pollard oak. It is now fully three feet lower than that point."
A day or two afterwards came another note-" Water is sinking
rapidly."
Fast on the heels of this followed a long letter, crossed, in which
italics vainly endeavoured to express her ladyship's astonishment at
the phenomenon. " Iwish you would come down and see for yourself,"
was one of her sentences as if I suspected her of draining the pool ;
" it really is most extraordinary. The woman you left in charge here
considers it a premonitory symptom of the Day of Judgment, and has
begged my acceptance of two tracts. She says, I may take her word
for it that, when that lake is empty, something will happen."
" Only thirty inches of water left," was the next report then,
" The pool is dry. But I am happy. I know where the water has
gone, and so do the railway people, to their cost. Their line is flooded.
They will have to make a fresh lake for themselves. Crow Hall is
besieged. Even from beyond Latchford Common the population repair
to see for themselves that the Black Pool has not a drop of water left in
it. A variety of barrels and other curiosities appear to be sunk in the
mud at the bottom. Some of the navvies and labourers have kindly
offered to remove the rubbish, but, as we do not know of what it may
consist, I am having the property watched by the sexton. Not another
creature in the parish would consent to remain all night in your haunted
grounds."
As may be imagined, I started off for Crow Hall at once, where I

found Lady Mary in high spirits, the Black Pool dry, the barrels, whatever they may have contained originally, empty of everythng but slime,
the railway engineers in despair, and Mrs. Paul shaking her head
ominously.
" It is all very well to talk of lower levels, and railway cuttings, and
the like ; but why should the lake dry up at this time, of all times ?
Will not the seventh of the next month, if any of us live to see it, be
the night when Mr. Philip Waldrum's wife disappeared - Heaven be
merciful to us sinners ! "
Thus Mrs. Paul ; whilst Mr. Dogsett looked wise, and delivered
himself of oracular sentences.
" It had all been foretold," he explained to me ; " but where, or
when, or by whom, he could not just rightly remember."
" You will find it a good thing for you in the end," said Lady Mary
to me. "Depend upon it, the railway people will have to buy the late
site of the Black Pool. "
" They will have to pay me well for it," I answered.
"And really you ought to make me a handsome present on the
occasion, " she remarked. " I am sure my taking Crow Hall has
brought good fortune to it."
" You have seen nothing to shake your resolution, then ? " I
asked.
" No ; if there are ghosts here, they are not from another world,"
LadyMary answered. " I cannot say the house is one I should recommend to a nervous lady. The locks have a way of clicking, the woodwork of cracking, the floors of creaking, the windows of rattling, and
the wind of howling in the chimneys, by no means pleasant to a light
sleeper. If any one were disposed to play tricks, it would be easy to
frighten even so incredulous a person as myself; but I fancy Mrs. Paul
would not like me to leave, and that if she ever has done any conjuring she repents now of her evil deeds."
"Do you really think then, Lady Mary, that Mrs. Paul had any
hand in the appearances which have given the place so evil a repute ? "
" Some one must-Mrs. Paul as probably as any other individual ;
but neither she nor her friends will try to make anything unpleasant
for me, or I am greatly mistaken."
I never saw Lady Mary in better spirits than when we parted that
day. Judge then of my consternation when a fortnight later I received
the following note from Fairy Water :-
" Lady Mary Carey is here. She arrived an hour since, very ill,
and in a state of utter exhaustion, and entreated me to let her stay
with me for a short time. She wishes to see you at once, and begs you
will bring Mr. Waldrum with you. I suggested sending for Doctor
Sloane, but she said, No ; that Mr. Waldrum alone can treat her case,
and that she has something important to say to both of you."
I did not fear taking Valentine with me to Fairy Water. I felt he
and Mary could now be safely trusted with the keeping of their own peace,
and that they were not likely voluntarily she to give, he to seek-any
opportunity of recurring to the one forbidden subject. Nevertheless,
with all my heart and soul I wished Lady Mary had carried her ailments and herself anywhere except to my cousin's house. And further,
I dreaded to hear what she might have to tell.

" That her illness and her secret both had a common origin at Crow
Hall I did not doubt in the least, and as Valentine and I journeyed
down from London, I told him frankly the small deceit I had practised,
and explained how it happened Lady Mary had taken a fancy to reside
at Crow Hall .
He listened with merely slight interruptions to my story, almost in
utter silence. When I had quite finished, he said, with a long drawn
sigh-
" If Lady Mary tells me she has seen that woman, it will be the
happiest news I have heard since my father's death."
We found the invalid sitting in a great arm-chair in Mary's dressingroom, in a voluminous morning wrapper, her black coarse hair hanging
straight down her back, her face destitute of any colour, save the dark
hue conferred on it by nature, her nerves so shaken that the tears came
into her eyes when she saw us, and the muscles round her mouth
twitched when she answered our greeting. What did Lady Mary look
like ? At that moment she ought to have frightened away any number
of ghosts .
Valentine wanted to prescribe for her first and hear the story afterwards.
I entreated of him not to attempt to talk of anything disagreeable
till her health was re-established.
" Sit down," she said, peremptorily. " If I do not speak to some
one of what mine eyes have seen, I shall go mad, and I can only speak
to you, or you," indicating each of us with a nod. " Stafford," she
went on, " when I first went to your place, I suspected that woman
Paul of complicity with the noises and repeated appearances. I beg to
say I earnestly ask her pardon. Now, Mr. Waldrum, before I begin
I wish to tell you distinctly that the thing I saw I beheld not in any
dream, or while I was labouring under any delusion. It all happened
so truly as you sit there. Listen.
" About ten days, Stafford, after you were last at Crow Hall,
Mrs. Paul brought me a ring, which she said she had found somewhere
about the house, and which she imagined to be one of mine..
" Of course I told her it was mine, and gave her five shillings for
her trouble .
" But the ring was not mine ; it was one the like of which I had
never beheld before, cut, evidently, out of a solid lump of gold, with a
good sized piece of the same metal left solid in the middle like a stone.
Into this piece of gold was let on the inner side a cross formed of lapis
lazuli, and on the outside, carved most exquisitely, was an alto relievo
of the Crucifixion .
" It was the strangest ring, and about the smallest I ever beheld.
I could not get it over the middle joint of my little finger, and so put
it on the stand on my dressing table, after I had thoroughly examined
and puzzled my brains over it. In an old house strange things do
sometimes however turn up, and I went to bed, thinking Iwould speak
about the matter to you, Stafford, and beg you to allow me to retain
the ring as a memorial of Crow Hall.
" About eleven o'clock I went to bed. I had been reading nothing
sensational, thinking of nothing exciting. I had dined at seven in the
anchorite style I have adopted since I left Low Park. Andrews undressed me, made up my fire, lit fresh candles-I always burn two candles at night-left me, and went to her own room, which adjoins mine.
Everything was just as usual, everything with the exception of that
strange ring, the very existence of which I had forgotten.
"After I had been asleep for perhaps a couple of hours, I woke
suddenly, struggling for breath, bathed in perspiration, and with the
strangest feeling, instinct I call it, of some one being in the room with
me .

" I am not one of those people who can gather their wits together
in a moment when roused out of slumber. I always feel more or less
dazed when struggling back into real life from the land of dreams, and
so I sat up in bed and shook my mind into consciousness by degrees.
" The fire had burnt black and hollow, the candles were burning
dim, as candles for some reason best known to themselves always do in
a bedroom, and what made their light appear less bright even than
ordinary was the fact that between the bed and the dressing-table stood
a woman searching about amongst the articles lying on the latter, as if
for something she had lost.
"" Andrews, I said, ' what are you doing ? what is the matter ? '
but no reply came.
" By this time I was wide awake, and had my senses about me. I
jumped out of bed, and calling ' Andrews,' at the top of my voice, put
out a hand to seize the intruder.
" As I did so I saw her face reflected in the glass ; then it faded
away, and my hands instead of meeting with any corporeal substance,
grasped nothing but thin air.
" At that instant Andrews appeared. ' I have had a bad dream,' I
explained. Make up a good fire, and sleep in the arm-chair, so that
if I want anything you will be nearer at hand.' And then I crept back
to bed, but not, you may be sure, to sleep."
" Can you describe the face you saw, Lady Mary ? " Valentine
asked, bending eagerly forward.
"Stop a little ; let me tell you my story in my own way. Next
morning the first thing I did was to look for the ring. It was gone.
"Now, as Andrews always bolted our door on the inside, it was
quite clear no one could have entered the room except by some secret
staircase. Further, the figure had not disappeared in any possible sort
of way, supposing it to have been flesh and blood: it melted out of
my sight, it faded into nothing in a second of time, and what was
more to the purpose, my hand passed through the spectre as if it had
been composed of nothing more tangible than a fog spray.
" I can tell you both I had plenty of food for thought that morning.
It would not have suited my plans to leave Essex then, otherwise I
should have packed up within the hour, and neither of you should have
heard a word of the story.
" Well, we did not pack up, but I changed my room, and once again
my doubts of Mrs. Paul were revived by hearingher remark to Andrews,
' Folks had never slept well in that oak room,' and further, ' that
those who lived longest would see most. However, I could not connect in my innermost heart the face I had seen in the glass with Mrs.
Paul, or any one belonging to her, and I grew so timid I feared,
actually feared, to go upstairs alone, either by day or night.

" I felt so miserable I asked the doctor and the curate to dine with
me, and then when they were gone I relapsed into a state of greater
wretchedness than ever.
" The next day I had arranged to spend at The Grange. Mr.
Conyngham wished to show me all over the house, and Miss-well,
Miss Conyngham thought it might be prudent to humour her brother's
whim ; at all events, I stood engaged to go to The Grange. There were
several matters about which I wished to consult him, several subjects
on which I desired his advice, and full of these worldly matters, and
wishing to get rid of the remembrance of my nocturnal visitor, I drove
off across Latchford Common, and in proper time arrived at your old
home, Mr. Waldrum .
" I had a long chat with Mr. Conyngham while we walked about the
grounds, and wandered through the conservatories, and I may tell
you, Stafford," added her ladyship, " in strict confidence, that he has,
in the kindest manner, promised to arrange those difficulties I mentioned
to you."
" Good heavens ! " I thought, " she has secured a third husband,
and that was why she wanted to go to Crow Hall. "
"After luncheon Mr. Conyngham asked if I should not like to see
the pictures. The dear good soul who owns The Grange has one crazehe fancies he understands art, and the consequence is he has been fleeced
right and left, has purchased a large number of pictures at an exorbitant
price, and honestly believes he has the finest collection, on a small scale,
that can be found in England.
" Now if there is one thing more than another in which it shocks me
to find a nice, kind creature deficient, it is art ; and if you believe me (I
did believe her thoroughly) it went to my heart to see all that rubbish
hung solemnly in the sight of day, and think of the money which must
have been wasted upon it.
" Suddenly, however, I caught sight of something which arrested my
attention.
""Where did you pick that up, Mr. Conyngham ? ' I inquired.
" That,' he repeated, following my glance, ' when Mr. Waldrum
left here, my father bought that portrait, thinking that face a very
beautiful one.'
"" Did you say a portrait ? ' I asked ; ' of whom is it a portrait ? '
" " Of the mysterious lady Philip Waldrum married, whose disappearance has never yet been accounted for.'
" By some means I got near an open window, on the plea of feeling
faint. I obtained a moment's quiet, and then afterwards a glass of
water.

" What was the matter with me, you want to know, Mr. Waldrum.
This the face I saw in the mirror was not merely like that which,
limned on canvas, hung on the walls at The Grange : it was the original
of that portrait. You may remember," she continued, speaking gently
to Valentine, " that every trifling detail is carried out in the picture
with almost painful minuteness. On the third finger of the left hand
above her wedding ring, that long lost wife is shown in her picture as
wearing another ring, as like that Mrs. Paul brought to me, as can well
be imagined.
" I tell you as I looked my blood ran cold, but I kept the secret,

Stafford ; no one shall ever know from me that the Crow Hall ghost is
as far from being laid or explained as ever."
I thanked her ladyship very earnestly for the courage and kindness
she had displayed, whilst Valentine, so agitated that he could scarcely
frame an intelligible sentence, declared she had lifted a load off his
heart which had been growing heavier day by day since his father's
death.
I felt glad to hear him say this, but I did not like the expression I saw
on his face, as we walked together out of the room.
" One word, Val.," I said ; " remember that although your position
may be different to what it was, Mrs. Trevor is just the same as ever.
There are plenty of women in England you can marry now, but you can
never marry her."
He shook my hands off, for the first time in my memory, with an
impatient gesture, and stalked across the hall and opened the outer
door himself, as though it were through any fault of mine Geoffrey had
left his widow so powerless in the matter of a second marriage. Upon
that step he turned, and said-
" You are guardian to the children ; surely it rests with you ; surely
if you liked you could befriend us."
"My dear fellow," I answered ; " believe me I am powerless. I
would help you if the will left me a chance of doing so."
" That is all very fine," he muttered.
" It is all very true," I replied.
He stood for a moment irresolute, then remarked, " I am going to
Low Park ."
" And I beg to suggest," I said, decidedly nettled, " that it will be
better for you to stay there ; or, at least, not return here. "
" I must come here to see Lady Mary ."
" If Lady Mary desires your attendance she must remove to
Low Park. I shall make that quite clear to her ladyship's comprehension."
"Do you mean that you would tell her ”
" I mean that she told me, " I interrupted. " Come, Valentine, it
is of no use your being either angry or sulky with me. Mrs. Trevor has
suffered enough already, without having the additional trouble of a
lover she can never marry hanging about the house. If it were a mere
question of money, I should not raise an objection ; but you know it is
not, and that it is your duty to keep away from Fairy Water."
He did not answer a word. He either failed to see my outstretched
hand, or declined to see it. He remained looking drearily about him
for a few seconds ; then, pulling his hat down over his forehead, as most
men do when trouble has for the nonce completely mastered them, he
strode away along the drive ; and, for the first time in his life, ValentineWaldrum parted from me in anger-his heart brimful of bitterness,
and suspicion, and injustice.
CHAPTER X.

The Secret of Crow Hall.
As I watched Valentine disappear in the windings of the avenue, I
decided upon retracing my road to London without further delay.

If I remained at Fairy Water, I felt that, in his present mood, he
would insist on coming to see me; and that it would not be in my
power to prevent his doing so, without a downright quarrel and open
upture supervening. Old though I might be, lover to his mother as I
had been, friend and helper as I had tried to be to both him and
Mary, I understood perfectly that for the time being he regarded me
with a feeling of the keenest detestation ; but I could make allowance
for this .
If there be one feeling stronger than another which human beings
and the brute creation have in common, it is that of jealousy ; and
when once a man becomes possessed by it, he is scarcely more responsible for his rudeness and his ill-temper than a cat is, when, seeing a
dog patted, she scratches him till he screams again.
It was, of course, ridiculous for Valentine to be jealous, for a moment, of my presence or my influence ; but I felt he was, and decided,
as I have said, that I would leave Fairy Water forthwith. To Lady
Mary I made no secret of my reason for going .
" Yes," she said, " it is absurd upon his part, no doubt ; but, still,
these fancies are beyond the power of rhyme or reason, and it is better
to try to keep peace than come to open war. It seems to me an
admirable idea altogether. You go to look after your Essex property,
and I stay to prevent Mrs. Trevor feeling lonely. I will remain until
after Christmas, and prove a very duenna over your pretty cousin."
" And when may your friends hope to see your ladyship in
London ? " I inquired.
" Whenever my nephew is sufficiently recovered to give me away,"
she answered. " As no man in his senses would dream of marrying me
now, except for my position, it is only fair the kind, good soul who
gives so much in return for so little should have all the pleasure and
éclat out of my relatives it is possible to extract from them."
Frequently there was a directness about Lady Mary's high breeding
which savoured of simplicity, and produced somewhat the same effect
upon unsophisticated people. I cannot say, however, it ever seemed to
impress my cousin in that way. Natural and simple herself, she perhaps detected more rapidly than a less unaffected person might have
done the false ring in Lady Mary's conversational coin.
I liked the counterfeit, I confess. It was bright, lively, a trifle
sarcastic, never wearisome ; and what a man has a weakness for is a
woman who does not know how to be dull.
The art of vivacity may be acquired. I believe, indeed, it is never
beheld in perfection save when acquired ; but it is better than any
genius or talent for all that.
After a time, indeed, my cousin wrote to me that Lady Mary was a
delightful companion, and made herself quite one of the householdwhich, indeed, I could readily credit. " The winter has never before
seemed so pleasant at Fairy Water," continued Mrs. Trevor ; " and I
hope you will not be vexed, but Lady Mary has looked out several
things here she would like to have in her new house, and I have begged
her acceptance of them. She offered to buy them, but, of course, I told
her I could not think of allowing anything of the kind. Ladies of
fashion-if Lady Mary be a specimen of them-must be curious people
to know, I think. Imagine our going to Low Park, and selecting

various articles which happened to strike our fancy ! And yet that is
just what Lady Mary has done here. Do not think, please, that I
object to it at all ; only I cannot help saying how odd it seems to me."
When I went down to Fairy Water, to partake of the Christmas
dinner-which was always a great and wonderful display in that primitive household I found Lady Mary installed as virtual mistress of
the establishment, and my cousin spite of her cheerful letters, and the
fact that Geoffrey had been returned to his home cured of his complaint, if still generally delicate in health-looking thin, pale, and spiritless.
" I am afraid your guest bores you, Mary," I said.
"Ah ! no . She is kindness itself."
" What, then, is the matter with you ? Are you ill ? "
" I am quite well, thank you," she said, shrinking away from me as
I had never known her do before.
Well-a-day ! When Cupid rides, the oldest friend, the wisest man,
the ablest scholar, the most profound philosopher, is nowhere in the race.
Said Lady Mary, " That protége of yours is writing to her perpetually, I am afraid."
" I wash my hands of them and their affairs," I answered, with the
determination and energy of a man who, dealing straightforwardly
with other people himself, likes to be dealt by straightforwardly in
return. But I repented me of this speech when, a day or two after,
my cousin came to me, and said-with the soft colour rising in her face,
and her eyes downcast, and head a little drooped-
" Stafford, I am constantly receiving letters from Mr. Waldrum .
I try to explain to him how I am situated ; but either I cannot be
explicit, or else he fails to comprehend. Will you tell him-will you
-that I would not give up my children if I loved him a thousand
times more than I do ? "
" You set me a hard task, my dear," I answered.
" Is it too hard ? " she inquired.
" Not when you ask me to do it," was my reply, and I left Fairy
Water next day.
Before I wrote to Valentine, I funished myself with a copy of
Geoffrey's will. A perusal of it would, I considered, be more convincing than reams of argument or expostulation from me.
" You see she cannot have the children if she marry again," I wrote.
" She says positively she will not give up the children. Is it manly to
continue to importune a woman situated as Mary is ? Of course this is
a matter in which you must take your own way. I cannot and will
not interfere further ; so instead of hurling reproaches at your head, or
stating that your letters must cease, when I have no power to prevent
your sending or Mary receiving them, I simply repeat my question,
and ask ifyou consider it manly to increase a woman's troubles ? "
To which I received this reply.
" I do not. She shall be troubled no more by me. Pray assure her
of this, and believe, if you can, that I am still, yours gratefully,
" V. WALDRUM."

My heart yearned over Valentine, but I did not mean to take him
back into favour all at once. He had been ill-humoured, sulky,

obstinate, defiant, and if I welcomed back the penitent at the first sign
of contrition, who could tell what liberties he might not indulge in
subsequently.
No, he should go his way and I would go mine ; mine about that
period taking me very frequently, and very much against my will, into
Essex.
The fact is, Crow Hall had to my mind become a perfect bête noire.
Sometimes when ensconced in bed, the street noises in my ears, the
objects familiar in a superior class of lodging-house meeting, my
eyes, a sudden memory of that dreary residence would cross my mind,
and cause me to vow, incontinently, I would solve the difficulty connected with it by some means .
Already I had made my money out of it. The railway company
were compelled to buy the Black Pool, and a very handsome sum they
paid me for it.
Before, however, the lake was filled again with water, one of the
navvies had discovered a curious fact.
At a place overgrown with brambles, ivy, and periwinkle, choked
with weeds, wreathed over in the summer with convolvulus and wild
briony, he had found an opening, and not merely an opening but landing steps.
" Used for smuggling purposes, doubtless, in years gone by," said
a practical man in the London office of the company.
" No doubt," I answered, and went straight off to an architect I
knew, who upon the strength of our plan contrived to keep a sickly
wife and various unnecessary children.
To say he jumped at my proposal is a mild way of expressing his
acquiescence. Ghosts, what did he care for ghosts ? Ghosts meant bad
air, bad drainage, bad water, and twenty other bad things besides .
Only let him see the place, and I might rest assured means would be
found of ridding Crow Hall of spectres.
" My good friend," said I, interposing ; " there is only one way oflaying the ghost. We must pull the old part of the house down, but I
want your advice as to how that pulling down had best be accomplished."
We travelled into Essex together, and took up our quarters at Crow
Hall. I did not put him in the " Guest Chamber," that haunted oak
room, neither did I occupy it myself, but directly after breakfast we
repaired to that apartment.
He measured it within, he measured the house without. He then
went upstairs once more and sounded one wall that met the fireplace.
He went over about three feet of that again and again.
" There is a space here," he remarked, " not accounted for. "
" How shall we account for it, " I asked.
" Send for a bricklayer ; " which I did.
In the most matter-of-fact way, my friend told him to open a hole
in the wall .
After he had been working for two hours, the room was filled
with rubbish, and we were able to put a candle and our heads through
the aperture .
" Well ? " inquired my friend, triumphantly.
" There is a staircase sure enough, " I agreed.
" Shall we go down it ? "

" I will not for any earthly consideration," was my prompt reply.
" Then I will presently," he remarked.
" Notwithstanding your wife and family, " I ventured to suggest.
"Notwithstanding twenty wives and twenty families," he replied,
with a firmness born perhaps of his distance from the home atmosphere.
He explored the staircase and came back baffled, but not despondent.
" We must examine the cellars," he said ; " that way lies success."
" That way lies madness," I murmured.
" Eh ? what did you say ? " he exclaimed.
" I said nothing to the purpose," I replied, curtly.
We went down into the cellars, but nothing could there be discovered to help us in our difficulty.
" Part of the house," he remarked, " seems to have been built on
the ground ; but there is nothing unusual in that, nothing at least so
unusual as to justify me in undermining the place to search for further
cellarage. With your permission I will work from the staircase."
I gave permission, and for I suppose three mortal hours, that bricklayer, urged on by my friend, and stimulated with beer, for which his
" mate " was being perpetually despatched, chipped away with his cold
chisel upon mortar which was more, so he averred, like granite, than
honest lime and sand.
By this time the winter's day had long closed, and the workman
intimating that his arms were a bit stiffish, and that it was tight working where there was no room to work, left us for the night, with the
assurance that he would be back again after breakfast the next morning.
After this, my friend, whose name was Tuft, and who is at the present moment distinguishing himself by designing various edifices
each more ugly, and more uncomfortable, and more thoroughly according to the ethics of modern art than its predecessor, was like many
another busy man, taken with a notion that he must inspect once
more the ghost's battle-field.
" Let the ghost rest for to-night, there's a good soul," I intreated ;
the idea of the ghost being, if I may say so, laid very considerably by
the discovery of that secret staircase, but he would listen to no remonstrance.

Stay here and rest, my dear sir," he intreated ; " but let me, do let
me examine once again the work accomplished to-day. "
He repaired to the scene of his triumphs and remained there for so
long a time that I was thinking of seeing what had become of him,
when he burst in upon me, pale but exultant.
" Come with me, come," he cried ; " the secret of Crow Hall is
solved at last."
"Do you mean," said I, " that you want me to go down those steps
to-night ? "
"Yes, most decidedly."
" Then most decidedly I shall do nothing of the kind. To-morrow
morning ifyou have anything to show me I will see it."
" How very odd you are," he remarked.
" Perhaps you might be odd if you had seen in Crow Hall the
things that have appeared to me and others. "

His enthusiasm died out a little after this.
On the whole, Crow Hall was not a nice house in which to be reminded of ghost stories late at night.
Morning brought, however, fresh courage to Mr. Tuft ; the presence of the bricklayer and his mate, who were already, ten minutes
after breakfast, thirsting for beer, inspired me with such confidence
that I agreed to descend those steps, the very sight of which filled me
with dismay.
Mr. Tuft went first, carrying a dark lantern, the bricklayer followed
him, bearing an ordinary lantern, with which he lit my steps, and last
of all came the man whom he called mate.
What a smell of damp and mould greeted our nostrils as we
descended the steps, and at last found ourselves standing in a space
about three feet square, one side of which was occupied by a doorway
through which I could see a space beyond black as Erebus.
" I 'spose it's all right, gov'ner," said the bricklayer, addressing Mr.
Tuft ; " no foul air, nor nothing of that sort."
" No foul nonsense,” exclaimed Mr. Tuft, though that gentleman
subsequently informed me the idea was not so preposterous as I might
imagine from the tone of his reply.
" We began work at the wrong wall, yesterday," he condescended
to explain. "We could not tell, because all the sides were plastered
over roughly to conceal the entrance, but no doubt the chipping and
hammering loosened fastenings, or I might have failed to find and open
the door last night. Now shall we go forward ? "
" By all means," I agreed, and we passed into the yawning blackness beyond .
We found ourselves in a cellar or dungeon, square, except for the
little vestibule which had been taken out of one corner ; behind us was
the concealed door by which we had entered ; facing it was another
door, which stood open ; this latter gave ingress to three other small
chambers. Out of one of these opened an archway, leading to what
seemed a subterraneous passage ; out of another a steep flight of stone
steps descended to unknown depths.
" I should say many a brave gentleman has lain perdu here till he
could escape to the coast in the good old times, when no one could
reckon how long he might be permitted to keep his head on his
shoulders," said Mr. Tuft, waving his dark lantern above his head, and
flashing the light now on the walls, the ground, the ceiling.
" I have always understood this was a smugglers' haunt, I remarked.
" The smuggling came after, doubtless," agreed Mr. Tuft, graciously.
" There does not seem much in these places to reward our search,"
I suggested, trying to speak carelessly, spite of a growing feeling of
giddiness and nausea which made me glad to lay my hand on the bricklayer's shoulder as we moved from place to place.
" No," said Mr. Tuft, " dirt, dust, damp, mildew, are the usual
tenants of concealed apartments now-a-days. With the exception of a
few empty barrels, there is nothing here to stimulate curiosity."
At this moment the bricklayer's mate, who had been lounging about
the rooms with a sort of speculative stare, turned from a small heap of

R. CALDECOTT, DEL.
EDMUND EVANS, SC.

"" Help me into the air-I feel as if I were dying. "
P. 93.

dust, which he first turned over with his foot, and then grubbed amongst
with his hands, broke across Mr. Tuft's speech by saying-
" Show a light here, Bill. "
Without troubling Bill, Mr. Tuft skipped across the floor and threw
a glance across the entrance of the subterranean passage.
" It's bones, ain't it ? " asked the discoverer, looking up in Mr.
Tuft's face, " and bits of glass."
Mr. Tuft pushed him aside, and kneeling down, took something
from the ground and held it to the light.
" Come here, Trevor," he said, in a voice hoarse with excitement.
Still giddy and sick, I staggered to his side.
"What is that ?" he asked, putting something into my hand and
flashing his bull's-eye on it.
" What is it ? A diamond to be sure. For heaven's sake," I went
on addressing the bricklayer, " help me into the air-I feel as if I were
dying."
In an instant the men caught me, not too soon, for I almost reeled
into their arms.
Though it was a cold winter's day I prayed them to take me into
the open air, anywhere out of the atmosphere of that accursed house.
When I was a little better, when I had sat for a while with the icy
wind cooling my forehead, and swallowed some brandy which Mrs.
Paul broughtme of her own free will, though ordinarily she disapproved
of what she called spiritual liquors, believing that tea was the only
beverage " sinful creatures with immortal souls " should indulge in,
when I had in a sentence, to quote Bill's mate, done what he styled,
" Come to hisself," Mr. Tuft joined me.
" Shall I close the door again, Trevor," he said, " till you are well
enough to go down with me again. There are jewels there worth a king's
ransom ."
" Collect them," I answered, " and then come back to me ; never
again will I set foot in any part of Crow Hall save Mrs. Paul's
kitchen."
Leaning on his arm I made my way to that pleasant apartment. In
it there was an old-fashioned sofa, upholstered in brown moreen, on
which I stretched myself.
Mrs. Paul considerately placed a small table beside my couch, on
which she left a Bible, hymn-book, Mr. Wesley's Discourses, and a few
tracts, before leaving me to repose.
Subsequently, I ascertained she assisted Mr. Tuft in picking up
the bright stones that lay amongst the dust and bones, constituting
the ghastly heap which had once, so we conjectured, been Philip Waldrum's wife .
I did not see the gems-I never saw them in fact. Mr. Tuft packed
them away in my bag, and saw that and the rest of my luggage, together
with my own person, en route for London during the course of the same
afternoon.
I signed him a cheque for present expenses before I left, told him to
raze Crow Hall with the ground, not to leave one stone of the old house
on the other, begged him to send for the clergyman and the doctor, and
the sexton and the undertaker, and let the dust and the bones be laid
in the churchyard, if it were possible.

Then I travelled back to town, reached Bishopsgate, hired a cab to
take me to my lodgings ; after which ensues a blank : a part of my life
is blotted out of my memory-of the hours, days, weeks which ensued
after I got out of the train and entered the cab, memory holds no
record.
When I take up the thread of my recollection once again, I am
lying in bed in my lodgings, and I have awakened wondering why it is
broad daylight, and why I feel so tired. I try to ring the bell, but my
arm refuses to obey my wish. I see my hands-they are wasted-mere
skin and bone like those of a skeleton.
Some one hearing me essay to move, comes and stands by my side.
" Mary ! " I exclaim, but my voice is weak and hollow.
"Yes, dear."
" What is it-what does it mean ? "
" You have been very ill, but you are better now, thank God. "
And to her-His instrument-often and often since that day, has
Valentine Waldrum told me her nursing saved my life.
" I tell you, honestly," he said, " I did not think at one time you
had a chance left."
" It was that house," I murmured.
" Yes, I know," was his reply ; " you must not talk of it."
" But I must," I answered. "Ask for the black bag I brought back
with me from Essex. " He left the room, and returned with it in his
hand.
" The key," I said, wearily, " is on a bunch, which you will find in
my pocket."
He looked for the keys and brought them to me.
" That unlocks the bag," I remarked, stopping him as he touched a
small brass key.
" Shall I open it ? " he inquired,
" No ; take the bag home with you. For God's sake never let me
see its contents again. You will find there that which will make you a
rich man for life ."
He thought I was wandering again, evidently, for he did not take
the bag. It was not till I had grown almost well again that we recurred to the subject.
" I hope you got a good price for those diamonds, Val.," I said.
" What diamonds ? " he inquired.
" Those in the bag I told you to take away with you, some time
back."
" I did not take it. Were you in your right mind when you wished
me to do so ? " he asked.
" My good fellow," I answered, " so long as that bag is in the house
I shall not get strong. Its contents caused my illness. Take them
away."
And he did. About the same time Mary took me away to the
seaside.

When next I saw Valentine Waldrum, I was well again, and leading
the old life which I had decided years and years before was the life
which suited me best. Crow Hall had meanwhile been levelled with
the ground, the Charitable Society had bought the farm, and the rail

way company had purchased the ground formerly laid out as lawn,
orchard, gardens, and drive.
" I shall go abroad," he said. " Thanks to you I am now rich
enough to go where I please. "
I did not answer. I knew it was the best thing he could do, and
yet my heart sank within me at his words. In other lands he might
forget, and win and woo some one free to return his love. In England
he could not forget Mary, and alas ! I knew Mary could not forget him.

Iwas leading my old life, as I have said. I was dining out more
frequently than ever, when one night, or rather morning, when I was
just about letting myself in with a latch-key, which was at once the
pain and the pleasure of my landlady's life, a young fellow, in full
evening dress, sprang out of a hansom, and addressing me, said-
" Mr. Trevor, Lady Mary Conyngham wants to see you immediately."
" What, at this hour ! " I exclaimed.
" On the instant," he replied.
" Is Mr. Conyngham dead or dying ? " I inquired.
" Neither. She has bound me to secresy, and the torture of the
boot should not wring any admission from me."
We jumped into the cab, and drove to the great town house
plebeian Mr. Conyngham had bought and furnished for his well-born
bride.
Straight upstairs we went, without announcement, to the drawing
room, where, daylight already fighting its way through the Venetian
blinds, Lady Mary, surrounded by a number of excited and expectant
guests, stood holding a paper in her fingers .
Seeing me, she thrust it into my hands-
" Read, read," she said, and the guests, falling back, formed a semicircle round me.
I was so confused, that my glasses fell twice off my nose whilst I
was trying to adjust them.
" In the name of Heaven, Stafford," cried her ladyship, " if you
cannot see, why do you not wear spectacles ? "
Which was an extremely unjust and cruel speech, inasmuch as her ladyship knew I used glasses not to aid, but merely to preserve my eyesight.
When, however, I beheld the first statement set forth in the paper
thrust upon me, I confess I felt like one blind.
" The last will and testament of Geoffrey Trevor, of Fairy Water,
in the parish of so-and-so, situated in such-and-such county ".
" Will some one read it aloud," I entreated, whereupon a young
man, with extremely red hair, at a sign from Lady Mary, took the
document from me, and recited its contents aloud.
It was the missing will, the will of which my cousin Geoffrey had
spoken to his wife, and that he had laid away in a secret corner of
the cabinet he had pointed to in his last agony ; that cabinet being one
of the articles of furniture Lady Mary had fancied she should like when
staying at Fairy Water.
Many and many a time I had examined the secret drawers of that
cabinet in hopes of discovering something to Mary's advantage, but
doubtless judicious bumping about on the part of the railway company had loosened the false bottom underneath, on which some curious

guest examining the relic, had found the will and a letter sealed and
directed to Mrs. Trevor.
" That dear little woman can marry Valentine Waldrum now, and be
the happiest wife in England," said Lady Mary, excitedly.
Ill-natured people declare her ladyship was so delighted about the
discovery, that she put her arms round my neck and kissed me.
If this be so, I can state solemnly I retain no recollection of her
condescension.
And for the rest-
After reading the letter and perusing the will, Mrs. Trevor
announced her intention of remaining a widow, and devoting herself to
his children for the rest of her life ; but after a time we talked her
into a better and more rational frame of mind.
I told her it was her duty to marry Valentine Waldrum, and as for
once in her life duty proved synonymous with pleasure, she promised
to do as she was told.
The Duke of Severn wanted to give her away, but that being a
privilege I meant to yield to no man, I asserted my prior claim, and
accordingly he accompanied Valentine as best man, whilst Miss Vinon,
all smiles and beauty, was sole bridesmaid at the quiet wedding.
I stood at the hall door looking after the newly-married pair as
they drove away, and I alone saw Mary put her head out of the window
and kiss her hand to me in token of farewell.
Then, my dear, that day, for the first time since I first beheld you,
was my heart free from a dull aching remorseful pain.
Is there anything more to tell ? Yes, Valentine and his wife live at
Fairy Water, and we hope when Geoffrey comes of age, to come to some
arrangement by which they can continue to reside in the old place.
Valentine has made a name, but by his pen rather than his original
profession.
He is wealthy, thanks to thejewels discovered at Crow Hall, and he
is happy, thanks to the woman he once thought he should never be
able to marry.
The ring which Lady Mary described so graphically, and which was
eventually taken off a skeleton finger discovered in that ghastly heap of
dust, Valentine offered for her ladyship's acceptance.
At first she recoiled from the mere mention of the trinket, then she
expressed a desire to look at it again, then she remembered Crow Hall
was no longer in existence, and that the original owner of the ring was
lying in consecrated ground. Finally, she said it was the most curious
piece of jewellery she had ever seen or heard of, and that it could be
easily enlarged.
After which, she accepted the present. To this hour she wears it.
I can honestly say, whenever my eye falls on that ring, I shiver. How
she can endure it on her finger passes my comprehension ! But then
as her ladyship sometimes is good enough to lucidly explain-
" Different ranks view different things differently."
In my opinion it is extremely fortunate that they do.
THE END .
