THE GHOST-BRAHMAN

Once on a time there lived a poor Brahman, who not being a Kulin,
found it the hardest thing in the world to get married. He went to
rich people and begged of them to give him money that he might marry a
wife. And a large sum of money was needed, not so much for the expenses
of the wedding, as for giving to the parents of the bride. He begged
from door to door, flattered many rich folk, and at last succeeded in
scraping together the sum needed. The wedding took place in due time;
and he brought home his wife to his mother. After a short time he said
to his mother--"Mother, I have no means to support you and my wife; I
must therefore go to distant countries to get money somehow or other. I
may be away for years, for I won't return till I get a good sum. In
the meantime I'll give you what I have; you make the best of it, and
take care of my wife." The Brahman receiving his mother's blessing set
out on his travels. In the evening of that very day, a ghost assuming
the exact appearance of the Brahman came into the house. The newly
married woman, thinking it was her husband, said to him--"How is it
that you have returned so soon? You said you might be away for years;
why have you changed your mind?" The ghost said--"To-day is not a
lucky day, I have therefore returned home; besides, I have already
got some money." The mother did not doubt but that it was her son. So
the ghost lived in the house as if he was its owner, and as if he was
the son of the old woman and the husband of the young woman. As the
ghost and the Brahman were exactly like each other in everything, like
two peas, the people in the neighbourhood all thought that the ghost
was the real Brahman. After some years the Brahman returned from his
travels; and what was his surprise when he found another like him in
the house. The ghost said to the Brahman--"Who are you? what business
have you to come to my house?" "Who am I?" replied the Brahman, "let
me ask who you are. This is my house; that is my mother, and this
is my wife." The ghost said--"Why herein is a strange thing. Every
one knows that this is my house, that is my wife, and yonder is
my mother; and I have lived here for years. And you pretend this
is your house, and that woman is your wife. Your head must have got
turned, Brahman." So saying the ghost drove away the Brahman from his
house. The Brahman became mute with wonder. He did not know what to
do. At last he bethought himself of going to the king and of laying
his case before him. The king saw the ghost-Brahman as well as the
Brahman, and the one was the picture of the other; so he was in a
fix, and did not know how to decide the quarrel. Day after day the
Brahman went to the king and besought him to give him back his house,
his wife, and his mother; and the king, not knowing what to say every
time, put him off to the following day. Every day the king tells him
to--"Come to-morrow"; and every day the Brahman goes away from the
palace weeping and striking his forehead with the palm of his hand,
and saying--"What a wicked world this is! I am driven from my own
house, and another fellow has taken possession of my house and of my
wife! And what a king this is! He does not do justice."

Now, it came to pass that as the Brahman went away every day from
the court outside the town, he passed a spot at which a great
many cowboys used to play. They let the cows graze on the meadow,
while they themselves met together under a large tree to play. And
they played at royalty. One cowboy was elected king; another, prime
minister or vizier; another, kotwal, or prefect of the police; and
others, constables. Every day for several days together they saw
the Brahman passing by weeping. One day the cowboy king asked his
vizier whether he knew why the Brahman wept every day. On the vizier
not being able to answer the question, the cowboy king ordered one of
his constables to bring the Brahman to him. One of them went and said
to the Brahman--"The king requires your immediate attendance." The
Brahman replied--"What for? I have just come from the king, and he
put me off till to-morrow. Why does he want me again?" "It is our king
that wants you--our neat-herd king," rejoined the constable. "Who is
neat-herd king?" asked the Brahman. "Come and see," was the reply. The
neat-herd king then asked the Brahman why he every day went away
weeping. The Brahman then told him his sad story. The neat-herd king,
after hearing the whole, said, "I understand your case; I will give
you again all your rights. Only go to the king and ask his permission
for me to decide your case." The Brahman went back to the king of the
country, and begged his Majesty to send his case to the neat-herd king,
who had offered to decide it. The king, whom the case had greatly
puzzled, granted the permission sought. The following morning was
fixed for the trial. The neat-herd king, who saw through the whole,
brought with him next day a phial with a narrow neck. The Brahman
and the ghost-Brahman both appeared at the bar. After a great deal
of examination of witnesses and of speech-making, the neat-herd king
said--"Well, I have heard enough. I'll decide the case at once. Here
is this phial. Whichever of you will enter into it shall be declared
by the court to be the rightful owner of the house the title of
which is in dispute. Now, let me see, which of you will enter." The
Brahman said--"You are a neat-herd, and your intellect is that of
a neat-herd. What man can enter into such a small phial?" "If you
cannot enter," said the neat-herd king, "then you are not the rightful
owner. What do you say, sir, to this?" turning to the ghost-Brahman
and addressing him. "If you can enter into the phial, then the
house and the wife and the mother become yours." "Of course I will
enter," said the ghost. And true to his word, to the wonder of all,
he made himself into a small creature like an insect, and entered
into the phial. The neat-herd king forthwith corked up the phial,
and the ghost could not get out. Then, addressing the Brahman, the
neat-herd king said, "Throw this phial into the bottom of the sea,
and take possession of your house, wife, and mother." The Brahman
did so, and lived happily for many years and begat sons and daughters.

            Here my story endeth,
            The Natiya-thorn withereth, etc.

XIII

THE MAN WHO WISHED TO BE PERFECT

Once on a time a religious mendicant came to a king who had no issue,
and said to him, "As you are anxious to have a son, I can give to the
queen a drug, by swallowing which she will give birth to twin sons;
but I will give the medicine on this condition, that of those twins you
will give one to me, and keep the other yourself." The king thought
the condition somewhat hard, but as he was anxious to have a son to
bear his name, and inherit his wealth and kingdom, he at last agreed
to the terms. Accordingly the queen swallowed the drug, and in due
time gave birth to two sons. The twin brothers became one year old,
two years old, three years old, four years old, five years old, and
still the mendicant did not appear to claim his share; the king and
queen therefore thought that the mendicant, who was old, was dead, and
dismissed all fears from their minds. But the mendicant was not dead,
but living; he was counting the years carefully. The young princes
were put under tutors, and made rapid progress in learning, as well
as in the arts of riding and shooting with the bow; and as they were
uncommonly handsome, they were admired by all the people. When the
princes were sixteen years old the mendicant made his appearance at the
palace gate, and demanded the fulfilment of the king's promise. The
hearts of the king and of the queen were dried up within them. They
had thought that the mendicant was no more in the land of the living;
but what was their surprise when they saw him standing at the gate
in flesh and blood, and demanding one of the young princes for
himself? The king and queen were plunged into a sea of grief. There
was nothing for it, however, but to part with one of the princes;
for the mendicant might by his curse turn into ashes not only both
the princes, but also the king, queen, palace, and the whole of the
kingdom to boot. But which one was to be given away? The one was as
dear as the other. A fearful struggle arose in the hearts of the king
and queen. As for the young princes, each of them said, "I'll go,"
"I'll go." The younger one said to the elder, "You are older, if
only by a few minutes; you are the pride of my father; you remain
at home, I'll go with the mendicant." The elder said to the younger,
"You are younger than I am; you are the joy of my mother; you remain
at home, I'll go with the mendicant." After a great deal of yea and
nay, after a great deal of mourning and lamentation, after the queen
had wetted her clothes with her tears, the elder prince was let go
with the mendicant. But before the prince left his father's roof he
planted with his own hands a tree in the courtyard of the palace, and
said to his parents and brother, "This tree is my life. When you see
the tree green and fresh, then know that it is well with me; when you
see the tree fade in some parts, then know that I am in an ill case;
and when you see the whole tree fade, then know that I am dead and
gone." Then kissing and embracing the king and queen and his brother,
he followed the mendicant.

As the mendicant and the prince were wending their way towards the
forest they saw some dog's whelps on the roadside. One of the whelps
said to its dam, "Mother, I wish to go with that handsome young man,
who must be a prince." The dam said, "Go"; and the prince gladly
took the puppy as his companion. They had not gone far when upon
a tree on the roadside they saw a hawk and its young ones. One of
the young ones said to its dam, "Mother, I wish to go with that
handsome young man, who must be the son of a king." The hawk said,
"Go"; and the prince gladly took the young hawk as his companion. So
the mendicant, the prince, with the puppy and the young hawk, went
on their journey. At last they went into the depth of the forest far
away from the houses of men, where they stopped before a hut thatched
with leaves. That was the mendicant's cell. The mendicant said to
the prince, "You are to live in this hut with me. Your chief work
will be to cull flowers from the forest for my devotions. You can
go on every side except the north. If you go towards the north evil
will betide you. You can eat whatever fruit or root you like; and
for your drink, you will get it from the brook." The prince disliked
neither the place nor his work. At dawn he used to cull flowers in
the forest and give them to the mendicant; after which the mendicant
went away somewhere the whole day and did not return till sundown;
so the prince had the whole day to himself. He used to walk about in
the forest with his two companions--the puppy and the young hawk. He
used to shoot arrows at the deer, of which there was a great number;
and thus made the best of his time. One day as he pierced a stag with
an arrow, the wounded stag ran towards the north, and the prince, not
thinking of the mendicant's behest, followed the stag, which entered
into a fine-looking house that stood close by. The prince entered,
but instead of finding the deer he saw a young woman of matchless
beauty sitting near the door with a dice-table set before her. The
prince was rooted to the spot while he admired the heaven-born
beauty of the lady. "Come in, stranger," said the lady; "chance has
brought you here, but don't go away without having with me a game of
dice." The prince gladly agreed to the proposal. As it was a game of
risk they agreed that if the prince lost the game he should give his
young hawk to the lady; and that if the lady lost it, she should give
to the prince a young hawk just like that of the prince. The lady won
the game; she therefore took the prince's young hawk and kept it in a
hole covered with a plank. The prince offered to play a second time,
and the lady agreeing to it, they fell to it again, on the condition
that if the lady won the game she should take the prince's puppy,
and if she lost it she should give to the prince a puppy just like
that of the prince. The lady won again, and stowed away the puppy in
another hole with a plank upon it. The prince offered to play a third
time, and the wager was that, if the prince lost the game, he should
give himself up to the lady to be done to by her anything she pleased;
and that if he won, the lady should give him a young man exactly like
himself. The lady won the game a third time; she therefore caught hold
of the prince and put him in a hole covered over with a plank. Now,
the beautiful lady was not a woman at all; she was a Rakshasi who
lived upon human flesh, and her mouth watered at the sight of the
tender body of the young prince. But as she had had her food that
day she reserved the prince for the meal of the following day.

Meantime there was great weeping in the house of the prince's
father. His brother used every day to look at the tree planted in
the courtyard by his own hand. Hitherto he had found the leaves of
a living green colour; but suddenly he found some leaves fading. He
gave the alarm to the king and queen, and told them how the leaves
were fading. They concluded that the life of the elder prince must
be in great danger. The younger prince therefore resolved to go to
the help of his brother, but before going he planted a tree in the
courtyard of the palace, similar to the one his brother had planted,
and which was to be the index of the manner of his life. He chose
the swiftest steed in the king's stables, and galloped towards the
forest. In the way he saw a dog with a puppy, and the puppy thinking
that the rider was the same that had taken away his fellow-cub--for
the two princes were exactly like each other--said, "As you have
taken away my brother, take me also with you." The younger prince
understanding that his brother had taken away a puppy, he took up
that cub as a companion. Further on, a young hawk, which was perched
on a tree on the roadside, said to the prince, "You have taken away
my brother; take me also, I beseech you"; on which the younger prince
readily took it up. With these companions he went into the heart of the
forest, where he saw a hut which he supposed to be the mendicant's. But
neither the mendicant nor his brother was there. Not knowing what to
do or where to go, he dismounted from his horse, allowed it to graze,
while he himself sat inside the house. At sunset the mendicant returned
to his hut, and seeing the younger prince, said, "I am glad to see
you. I told your brother never to go towards the north, for evil in
that case would betide him; but it seems that, disobeying my orders,
he has gone to the north and has fallen into the toils of a Rakshasi
who lives there. There is no hope of rescuing him; perhaps he has
already been devoured." The younger prince forthwith went towards
the north, where he saw a stag which he pierced with an arrow. The
stag ran into a house which stood by, and the younger prince followed
it. He was not a little astonished when, instead of seeing a stag,
he saw a woman of exquisite beauty. He immediately concluded, from
what he had heard from the mendicant, that the pretended woman was none
other than the Rakshasi in whose power his brother was. The lady asked
him to play a game of dice with her. He complied with the request,
and on the same conditions on which the elder prince had played. The
younger prince won; on which the lady produced the young hawk from the
hole and gave it to the prince. The joy of the two hawks on meeting
each other was great. The lady and the prince played a second time,
and the prince won again. The lady therefore brought to the prince
the young puppy lying in the hole. They played a third time, and the
prince won a third time. The lady demurred to producing a young man
exactly like the prince, pretending that it was impossible to get one;
but on the prince insisting upon the fulfilment of the condition,
his brother was produced. The joy of the two brothers on meeting each
other was great. The Rakshasi said to the princes, "Don't kill me,
and I will tell you a secret which will save the life of the elder
prince." She then told them that the mendicant was a worshipper of the
goddess Kali, who had a temple not far off; that he belonged to that
sect of Hindus who seek perfection from intercourse with the spirits of
departed men; that he had already sacrificed at the altar of Kali six
human victims whose skulls could be seen in niches inside her temple;
that he would become perfect when the seventh victim was sacrificed;
and that the elder prince was intended for the seventh victim. The
Rakshasi then told the prince to go immediately to the temple to find
out the truth of what she had said. To the temple they accordingly
went. When the elder prince went inside the temple, the skulls in the
niches laughed a ghastly laugh. Horror-struck at the sight and sound,
he inquired the cause of the laughter; and the skulls told him that
they were glad because they were about to get another added to their
number. One of the skulls, as spokesman of the rest, said, "Young
prince, in a few days the mendicant's devotions will be completed, and
you will be brought into this temple and your head will be cut off, and
you will keep company with us. But there is one way by which you can
escape that fate and do us good." "Oh, do tell me," said the prince,
"what that way is, and I promise to do you all the good I can." The
skull replied, "When the mendicant brings you into this temple to offer
you up as a sacrifice, before cutting off your head he will tell you
to prostrate yourself before Mother Kali, and while you prostrate
yourself he will cut off your head. But take our advice, when he
tells you to bow down before Kali, you tell him that as a prince you
never bowed down to any one, that you never knew what bowing down was,
and that the mendicant should show it to you by himself doing it in
your presence. And when he bows down to show you how it is done, you
take up your sword and separate his head from his body. And when you
do that we shall all be restored to life, as the mendicant's vows will
be unfulfilled." The elder prince thanked the skulls for their advice,
and went into the hut of the mendicant along with his younger brother.

In the course of a few days the mendicant's devotions were
completed. On the following day he told the prince to go along with
him to the temple of Kali, for what reason he did not mention; but the
prince knew it was to offer him up as a victim to the goddess. The
younger prince also went with them, but he was not allowed to go
inside the temple. The mendicant then stood in the presence of Kali
and said to the prince, "Bow down to the goddess." The prince replied,
"I have not, as a prince, bowed to any one; I do not know how to
perform the act of prostration. Please show me the way first, and
I'll gladly do it." The mendicant then prostrated himself before the
goddess; and while he was doing so the prince at one stroke of his
sword separated his head from his body. Immediately the skulls in the
niches of the temple laughed aloud, and the goddess herself became
propitious to the prince and gave him that virtue of perfection which
the mendicant had sought to obtain. The skulls were again united to
their respective bodies and became living men, and the two princes
returned to their country.

            Here my story endeth,
            The Natiya-thorn withereth, etc.

XIV
