_Oke of Okehurst_

                      To COUNT PETER BOUTOURLINE,
                            _AT TAGANTCHA_,
                      GOVERNMENT OF KIEW, RUSSIA.

MY DEAR BOUTOURLINE,

Do you remember my telling you, one afternoon that you sat upon the
hearthstool at Florence, the story of Mrs. Oke of Okehurst?

You thought it a fantastic tale, you lover of fantastic things, and
urged me to write it out at once, although I protested that, in such
matters, to write is to exorcise, to dispel the charm; and that
printers’ ink chases away the ghosts that may pleasantly haunt us, as
efficaciously as gallons of holy water.

But if, as I suspect, you will now put down any charm that story may
have possessed to the way in which we had been working ourselves up,
that firelight evening, with all manner of fantastic stuff—if, as I
fear, the story of Mrs. Oke of Okehurst will strike you as stale and
unprofitable—the sight of this little book will serve at least to
remind you, in the middle of your Russian summer, that there is such a
season as winter, such a place as Florence, and such a person as your
friend,

                                                             VERNON LEE
Kensington, _July_ 1886.

                                   1

That sketch up there with the boy’s cap? Yes; that’s the same woman.
I wonder whether you could guess who she was. A singular being, is
she not? The most marvellous creature, quite, that I have ever met:
a wonderful elegance, exotic, far-fetched, poignant; an artificial
perverse sort of grace and research in every outline and movement and
arrangement of head and neck, and hands and fingers. Here are a lot of
pencil sketches I made while I was preparing to paint her portrait.
Yes; there’s nothing but her in the whole sketchbook. Mere scratches,
but they may give some idea of her marvellous, fantastic kind of grace.
Here she is leaning over the staircase, and here sitting in the swing.
Here she is walking quickly out of the room. That’s her head. You see
she isn’t really handsome; her forehead is too big, and her nose too
short. This gives no idea of her. It was altogether a question of
movement. Look at the strange cheeks, hollow and rather flat; well,
when she smiled she had the most marvellous dimples here. There was
something exquisite and uncanny about it. Yes; I began the picture,
but it was never finished. I did the husband first. I wonder who has
his likeness now? Help me to move these pictures away from the wall.
Thanks. This is her portrait; a huge wreck. I don’t suppose you can
make much of it; it is merely blocked in, and seems quite mad. You see
my idea was to make her leaning against a wall—there was one hung with
yellow that seemed almost brown—so as to bring out the silhouette.

It was very singular I should have chosen that particular wall. It
does look rather insane in this condition, but I like it; it has
something of her. I would frame it and hang it up, only people would
ask questions. Yes; you have guessed quite right—it is Mrs. Oke of
Okehurst. I forgot you had relations in that part of the country;
besides, I suppose the newspapers were full of it at the time. You
didn’t know that it all took place under my eyes? I can scarcely
believe now that it did: it all seems so distant, vivid but unreal,
like a thing of my own invention. It really was much stranger than
any one guessed. People could no more understand it than they could
understand her. I doubt whether any one ever understood Alice Oke
besides myself. You mustn’t think me unfeeling. She was a marvellous,
weird, exquisite creature, but one couldn’t feel sorry for her. I felt
much sorrier for the wretched creature of a husband. It seemed such
an appropriate end for her; I fancy she would have liked it could she
have known. Ah! I shall never have another chance of painting such
a portrait as I wanted. She seemed sent me from heaven or the other
place. You have never heard the story in detail? Well, I don’t usually
mention it, because people are so brutally stupid or sentimental; but
I’ll tell it you. Let me see. It’s too dark to paint any more today, so
I can tell it you now. Wait; I must turn her face to the wall. Ah, she
was a marvellous creature!

                                   2

You remember, three years ago, my telling you I had let myself in for
painting a couple of Kentish squireen? I really could not understand
what had possessed me to say yes to that man. A friend of mine had
brought him one day to my studio—Mr. Oke of Okehurst, that was the name
on his card. He was a very tall, very well-made, very good-looking
young man, with a beautiful fair complexion, beautiful fair moustache,
and beautifully fitting clothes; absolutely like a hundred other young
men you can see any day in the Park, and absolutely uninteresting from
the crown of his head to the tip of his boots. Mr. Oke, who had been a
lieutenant in the Blues before his marriage, was evidently extremely
uncomfortable on finding himself in a studio. He felt misgivings about
a man who could wear a velvet coat in town, but at the same time he was
nervously anxious not to treat me in the very least like a tradesman.
He walked round my place, looked at everything with the most scrupulous
attention, stammered out a few complimentary phrases, and then, looking
at his friend for assistance, tried to come to the point, but failed.
The point, which the friend kindly explained, was that Mr. Oke was
desirous to know whether my engagements would allow of my painting
him and his wife, and what my terms would be. The poor man blushed
perfectly crimson during this explanation, as if he had come with the
most improper proposal; and I noticed—the only interesting thing about
him—a very odd nervous frown between his eyebrows, a perfect double
gash,—a thing which usually means something abnormal: a mad-doctor of
my acquaintance calls it the maniac-frown. When I had answered, he
suddenly burst out into rather confused explanations: his wife—Mrs.
Oke—had seen some of my—pictures—paintings—portraits—at the—the—what
d’you call it?—Academy. She had—in short, they had made a very great
impression upon her. Mrs. Oke had a great taste for art; she was, in
short, extremely desirous of having her portrait and his painted by me,
_etcetera_.

“My wife,” he suddenly added, “is a remarkable woman. I don’t know
whether you will think her handsome,—she isn’t exactly, you know. But
she’s awfully strange,” and Mr. Oke of Okehurst gave a little sigh and
frowned that curious frown, as if so long a speech and so decided an
expression of opinion had cost him a great deal.

It was a rather unfortunate moment in my career. A very influential
sitter of mine—you remember the fat lady with the crimson curtain
behind her?—had come to the conclusion or been persuaded that I had
painted her old and vulgar, which, in fact, she was. Her whole clique
had turned against me, the newspapers had taken up the matter, and for
the moment I was considered as a painter to whose brushes no woman
would trust her reputation. Things were going badly. So I snapped but
too gladly at Mr. Oke’s offer, and settled to go down to Okehurst
at the end of a fortnight. But the door had scarcely closed upon my
future sitter when I began to regret my rashness; and my disgust at
the thought of wasting a whole summer upon the portrait of a totally
uninteresting Kentish squire, and his doubtless equally uninteresting
wife, grew greater and greater as the time for execution approached.
I remember so well the frightful temper in which I got into the train
for Kent, and the even more frightful temper in which I got out of
it at the little station nearest to Okehurst. It was pouring floods.
I felt a comfortable fury at the thought that my canvases would get
nicely wetted before Mr. Oke’s coachman had packed them on the top of
the waggonette. It was just what served me right for coming to this
confounded place to paint these confounded people. We drove off in the
steady downpour. The roads were a mass of yellow mud; the endless flat
grazing-grounds under the oak-trees, after having been burnt to cinders
in a long drought, were turned into a hideous brown sop; the country
seemed intolerably monotonous.

My spirits sank lower and lower. I began to meditate upon the modern
Gothic country-house, with the usual amount of Morris furniture,
Liberty rugs, and Mudie novels, to which I was doubtless being taken.
My fancy pictured very vividly the five or six little Okes—that
man certainly must have at least five children—the aunts, and
sisters-in-law, and cousins; the eternal routine of afternoon tea
and lawn-tennis; above all, it pictured Mrs. Oke, the bouncing,
well-informed, model housekeeper, electioneering, charity-organising
young lady, whom such an individual as Mr. Oke would regard in the
light of a remarkable woman. And my spirit sank within me, and I
cursed my avarice in accepting the commission, my spiritlessness in
not throwing it over while yet there was time. We had meanwhile driven
into a large park, or rather a long succession of grazing-grounds,
dotted about with large oaks, under which the sheep were huddled
together for shelter from the rain. In the distance, blurred by the
sheets of rain, was a line of low hills, with a jagged fringe of
bluish firs and a solitary windmill. It must be a good mile and a
half since we had passed a house, and there was none to be seen in
the distance—nothing but the undulation of sere grass, sopped brown
beneath the huge blackish oak-trees, and whence arose, from all sides,
a vague disconsolate bleating. At last the road made a sudden bend,
and disclosed what was evidently the home of my sitter. It was not
what I had expected. In a dip in the ground a large red-brick house,
with the rounded gables and high chimney-stacks of the time of James
I.,—a forlorn, vast place, set in the midst of the pasture-land, with
no trace of garden before it, and only a few large trees indicating
the possibility of one to the back; no lawn either, but on the other
side of the sandy dip, which suggested a filled-up moat, a huge oak,
short, hollow, with wreathing, blasted, black branches, upon which only
a handful of leaves shook in the rain. It was not at all what I had
pictured to myself the home of Mr. Oke of Okehurst.

My host received me in the hall, a large place, panelled and carved,
hung round with portraits up to its curious ceiling—vaulted and ribbed
like the inside of a ship’s hull. He looked even more blond and pink
and white, more absolutely mediocre in his tweed suit; and also, I
thought, even more good-natured and duller. He took me into his study,
a room hung round with whips and fishing-tackle in place of books,
while my things were being carried upstairs. It was very damp, and a
fire was smouldering. He gave the embers a nervous kick with his foot,
and said, as he offered me a cigar—

“You must excuse my not introducing you at once to Mrs. Oke. My wife—in
short, I believe my wife is asleep.”

“Is Mrs. Oke unwell?” I asked, a sudden hope flashing across me that I
might be off the whole matter.

“Oh no! Alice is quite well; at least, quite as well as she usually
is. My wife,” he added, after a minute, and in a very decided tone,
“does not enjoy very good health—a nervous constitution. Oh no! not at
all ill, nothing at all serious, you know. Only nervous, the doctors
say; mustn’t be worried or excited, the doctors say; requires lots of
repose,—that sort of thing.”

There was a dead pause. This man depressed me, I knew not why. He had
a listless, puzzled look, very much out of keeping with his evident
admirable health and strength.

“I suppose you are a great sportsman?” I asked from sheer despair,
nodding in the direction of the whips and guns and fishing-rods.

“Oh no! not now. I was once. I have given up all that,” he answered,
standing with his back to the fire, and staring at the polar bear
beneath his feet. “I—I have no time for all that now,” he added, as if
an explanation were due. “A married man—you know. Would you like to
come up to your rooms?” he suddenly interrupted himself. “I have had
one arranged for you to paint in. My wife said you would prefer a north
light. If that one doesn’t suit, you can have your choice of any other.”

I followed him out of the study, through the vast entrance-hall. In
less than a minute I was no longer thinking of Mr. and Mrs. Oke and the
boredom of doing their likeness; I was simply overcome by the beauty of
this house, which I had pictured modern and philistine. It was, without
exception, the most perfect example of an old English manor-house that
I had ever seen; the most magnificent intrinsically, and the most
admirably preserved. Out of the huge hall, with its immense fireplace
of delicately carved and inlaid grey and black stone, and its rows of
family portraits, reaching from the wainscoting to the oaken ceiling,
vaulted and ribbed like a ship’s hull, opened the wide, flat-stepped
staircase, the parapet surmounted at intervals by heraldic monsters,
the wall covered with oak carvings of coats-of-arms, leafage, and
little mythological scenes, painted a faded red and blue, and picked
out with tarnished gold, which harmonised with the tarnished blue and
gold of the stamped leather that reached to the oak cornice, again
delicately tinted and gilded. The beautifully damascened suits of court
armour looked, without being at all rusty, as if no modern hand had
ever touched them; the very rugs under foot were of sixteenth-century
Persian make; the only things of to-day were the big bunches of flowers
and ferns, arranged in majolica dishes upon the landings. Everything
was perfectly silent; only from below came the chimes, silvery like an
Italian palace fountain, of an old-fashioned clock.

It seemed to me that I was being led through the palace of the Sleeping
Beauty.

“What a magnificent house!” I exclaimed as I followed my host through
a long corridor, also hung with leather, wainscoted with carvings, and
furnished with big wedding coffers, and chairs that looked as if they
came out of some Vandyck portrait. In my mind was the strong impression
that all this was natural, spontaneous—that it had about it nothing
of the picturesqueness which swell studios have taught to rich and
aesthetic houses. Mr. Oke misunderstood me.

“It is a nice old place,” he said, “but it’s too large for us. You see,
my wife’s health does not allow of our having many guests; and there
are no children.”

I thought I noticed a vague complaint in his voice; and he evidently
was afraid there might have seemed something of the kind, for he added
immediately—

“I don’t care for children one jackstraw, you know, myself; can’t
understand how any one can, for my part.”

If ever a man went out of his way to tell a lie, I said to myself, Mr.
Oke of Okehurst was doing so at the present moment.

When he had left me in one of the two enormous rooms that were allotted
to me, I threw myself into an arm-chair and tried to focus the
extraordinary imaginative impression which this house had given me.

I am very susceptible to such impressions; and besides the sort
of spasm of imaginative interest sometimes given to me by certain
rare and eccentric personalities, I know nothing more subduing than
the charm, quieter and less analytic, of any sort of complete and
out-of-the-common-run sort of house. To sit in a room like the one
I was sitting in, with the figures of the tapestry glimmering grey
and lilac and purple in the twilight, the great bed, columned and
curtained, looming in the middle, and the embers reddening beneath the
overhanging mantelpiece of inlaid Italian stonework, a vague scent of
rose-leaves and spices, put into the china bowls by the hands of ladies
long since dead, while the clock downstairs sent up, every now and
then, its faint silvery tune of forgotten days, filled the room;—to
do this is a special kind of voluptuousness, peculiar and complex
and indescribable, like the half-drunkenness of opium or haschisch,
and which, to be conveyed to others in any sense as I feel it, would
require a genius, subtle and heady, like that of Baudelaire.

After I had dressed for dinner I resumed my place in the arm-chair,
and resumed also my reverie, letting all these impressions of the
past—which seemed faded like the figures in the arras, but still
warm like the embers in the fireplace, still sweet and subtle like
the perfume of the dead rose-leaves and broken spices in the china
bowls—permeate me and go to my head. Of Oke and Oke’s wife I did not
think; I seemed quite alone, isolated from the world, separated from it
in this exotic enjoyment.

Gradually the embers grew paler; the figures in the tapestry more
shadowy; the columned and curtained bed loomed out vaguer; the room
seemed to fill with greyness; and my eyes wandered to the mullioned
bow-window, beyond whose panes, between whose heavy stonework,
stretched a greyish-brown expanse of sore and sodden park grass, dotted
with big oaks; while far off, behind a jagged fringe of dark Scotch
firs, the wet sky was suffused with the blood-red of the sunset.
Between the falling of the raindrops from the ivy outside, there came,
fainter or sharper, the recurring bleating of the lambs separated from
their mothers, a forlorn, quavering, eerie little cry.

I started up at a sudden rap at my door.

“Haven’t you heard the gong for dinner?” asked Mr. Oke’s voice.

I had completely forgotten his existence.

                                   3

I feel that I cannot possibly reconstruct my earliest impressions of
Mrs. Oke. My recollection of them would be entirely coloured by my
subsequent knowledge of her; whence I conclude that I could not at
first have experienced the strange interest and admiration which that
extraordinary woman very soon excited in me. Interest and admiration,
be it well understood, of a very unusual kind, as she was herself a
very unusual kind of woman; and I, if you choose, am a rather unusual
kind of man. But I can explain that better anon.

This much is certain, that I must have been immeasurably surprised at
finding my hostess and future sitter so completely unlike everything
I had anticipated. Or no—now I come to think of it, I scarcely felt
surprised at all; or if I did, that shock of surprise could have lasted
but an infinitesimal part of a minute. The fact is, that, having once
seen Alice Oke in the reality, it was quite impossible to remember that
one could have fancied her at all different: there was something so
complete, so completely unlike every one else, in her personality, that
she seemed always to have been present in one’s consciousness, although
present, perhaps, as an enigma.

Let me try and give you some notion of her: not that first impression,
whatever it may have been, but the absolute reality of her as I
gradually learned to see it. To begin with, I must repeat and reiterate
over and over again, that she was, beyond all comparison, the most
graceful and exquisite woman I have ever seen, but with a grace
and an exquisiteness that had nothing to do with any preconceived
notion or previous experience of what goes by these names: grace and
exquisiteness recognised at once as perfect, but which were seen in her
for the first, and probably, I do believe, for the last time. It is
conceivable, is it not, that once in a thousand years there may arise
a combination of lines, a system of movements, an outline, a gesture,
which is new, unprecedented, and yet hits off exactly our desires for
beauty and rareness? She was very tall; and I suppose people would
have called her thin. I don’t know, for I never thought about her as
a body—bones, flesh, that sort of thing; but merely as a wonderful
series of lines, and a wonderful strangeness of personality. Tall and
slender, certainly, and with not one item of what makes up our notion
of a well-built woman. She was as straight—I mean she had as little
of what people call figure—as a bamboo; her shoulders were a trifle
high, and she had a decided stoop; her arms and her shoulders she never
once wore uncovered. But this bamboo figure of hers had a suppleness
and a stateliness, a play of outline with every step she took, that
I can’t compare to anything else; there was in it something of the
peacock and something also of the stag; but, above all, it was her
own. I wish I could describe her. I wish, alas!—I wish, I wish, I have
wished a hundred thousand times—I could paint her, as I see her now,
if I shut my eyes—even if it were only a silhouette. There! I see her
so plainly, walking slowly up and down a room, the slight highness of
her shoulders; just completing the exquisite arrangement of lines made
by the straight supple back, the long exquisite neck, the head, with
the hair cropped in short pale curls, always drooping a little, except
when she would suddenly throw it back, and smile, not at me, nor at
any one, nor at anything that had been said, but as if she alone had
suddenly seen or heard something, with the strange dimple in her thin,
pale cheeks, and the strange whiteness in her full, wide-opened eyes:
the moment when she had something of the stag in her movement. But
where is the use of talking about her? I don’t believe, you know, that
even the greatest painter can show what is the real beauty of a very
beautiful woman in the ordinary sense: Titian’s and Tintoretto’s women
must have been miles handsomer than they have made them. Something—and
that the very essence—always escapes, perhaps because real beauty is as
much a thing in time—a thing like music, a succession, a series—as in
space. Mind you, I am speaking of a woman beautiful in the conventional
sense. Imagine, then, how much more so in the case of a woman like
Alice Oke; and if the pencil and brush, imitating each line and tint,
can’t succeed, how is it possible to give even the vaguest notion with
mere wretched words—words possessing only a wretched abstract meaning,
an impotent conventional association? To make a long story short, Mrs.
Oke of Okehurst was, in my opinion, to the highest degree exquisite
and strange,—an exotic creature, whose charm you can no more describe
than you could bring home the perfume of some newly discovered tropical
flower by comparing it with the scent of a cabbage-rose or a lily.

That first dinner was gloomy enough. Mr. Oke—Oke of Okehurst, as the
people down there called him—was horribly shy, consumed with a fear
of making a fool of himself before me and his wife, I then thought.
But that sort of shyness did not wear off; and I soon discovered
that, although it was doubtless increased by the presence of a total
stranger, it was inspired in Oke, not by me, but by his wife. He
would look every now and then as if he were going to make a remark,
and then evidently restrain himself, and remain silent. It was very
curious to see this big, handsome, manly young fellow, who ought to
have had any amount of success with women, suddenly stammer and grow
crimson in the presence of his own wife. Nor was it the consciousness
of stupidity; for when you got him alone, Oke, although always slow
and timid, had a certain amount of ideas, and very defined political
and social views, and a certain childlike earnestness and desire to
attain certainty and truth which was rather touching. On the other
hand, Oke’s singular shyness was not, so far as I could see, the
result of any kind of bullying on his wife’s part. You can always
detect, if you have any observation, the husband or the wife who is
accustomed to be snubbed, to be corrected, by his or her better-half:
there is a self-consciousness in both parties, a habit of watching
and fault-finding, of being watched and found fault with. This was
clearly not the case at Okehurst. Mrs. Oke evidently did not trouble
herself about her husband in the very least; he might say or do any
amount of silly things without rebuke or even notice; and he might
have done so, had he chosen, ever since his wedding-day. You felt that
at once. Mrs. Oke simply passed over his existence. I cannot say she
paid much attention to any one’s, even to mine. At first I thought it
an affectation on her part—for there was something far-fetched in her
whole appearance, something suggesting study, which might lead one
to tax her with affectation at first; she was dressed in a strange
way, not according to any established aesthetic eccentricity, but
individually, strangely, as if in the clothes of an ancestress of the
seventeenth century. Well, at first I thought it a kind of pose on
her part, this mixture of extreme graciousness and utter indifference
which she manifested towards me. She always seemed to be thinking of
something else; and although she talked quite sufficiently, and with
every sign of superior intelligence, she left the impression of having
been as taciturn as her husband.

In the beginning, in the first few days of my stay at Okehurst, I
imagined that Mrs. Oke was a highly superior sort of flirt; and
that her absent manner, her look, while speaking to you, into an
invisible distance, her curious irrelevant smile, were so many means
of attracting and baffling adoration. I mistook it for the somewhat
similar manners of certain foreign women—it is beyond English
ones—which mean, to those who can understand, “pay court to me.” But I
soon found I was mistaken. Mrs. Oke had not the faintest desire that I
should pay court to her; indeed she did not honour me with sufficient
thought for that; and I, on my part, began to be too much interested
in her from another point of view to dream of such a thing. I became
aware, not merely that I had before me the most marvellously rare and
exquisite and baffling subject for a portrait, but also one of the
most peculiar and enigmatic of characters. Now that I look back upon
it, I am tempted to think that the psychological peculiarity of that
woman might be summed up in an exorbitant and absorbing interest in
herself—a Narcissus attitude—curiously complicated with a fantastic
imagination, a sort of morbid day-dreaming, all turned inwards, and
with no outer characteristic save a certain restlessness, a perverse
desire to surprise and shock, to surprise and shock more particularly
her husband, and thus be revenged for the intense boredom which his
want of appreciation inflicted upon her.

I got to understand this much little by little, yet I did not seem
to have really penetrated the something mysterious about Mrs. Oke.
There was a waywardness, a strangeness, which I felt but could not
explain—a something as difficult to define as the peculiarity of her
outward appearance, and perhaps very closely connected therewith.
I became interested in Mrs. Oke as if I had been in love with her;
and I was not in the least in love. I neither dreaded parting from
her, nor felt any pleasure in her presence. I had not the smallest
wish to please or to gain her notice. But I had her on the brain. I
pursued her, her physical image, her psychological explanation, with
a kind of passion which filled my days, and prevented my ever feeling
dull. The Okes lived a remarkably solitary life. There were but few
neighbours, of whom they saw but little; and they rarely had a guest
in the house. Oke himself seemed every now and then seized with a
sense of responsibility towards me. He would remark vaguely, during
our walks and after-dinner chats, that I must find life at Okehurst
horribly dull; his wife’s health had accustomed him to solitude, and
then also his wife thought the neighbours a bore. He never questioned
his wife’s judgment in these matters. He merely stated the case as
if resignation were quite simple and inevitable; yet it seemed to
me, sometimes, that this monotonous life of solitude, by the side of
a woman who took no more heed of him than of a table or chair, was
producing a vague depression and irritation in this young man, so
evidently cut out for a cheerful, commonplace life. I often wondered
how he could endure it at all, not having, as I had, the interest of
a strange psychological riddle to solve, and of a great portrait to
paint. He was, I found, extremely good,—the type of the perfectly
conscientious young Englishman, the sort of man who ought to have
been the Christian soldier kind of thing; devout, pure-minded, brave,
incapable of any baseness, a little intellectually dense, and puzzled
by all manner of moral scruples. The condition of his tenants and of
his political party—he was a regular Kentish Tory—lay heavy on his
mind. He spent hours every day in his study, doing the work of a land
agent and a political whip, reading piles of reports and newspapers and
agricultural treatises; and emerging for lunch with piles of letters in
his hand, and that odd puzzled look in his good healthy face, that deep
gash between his eyebrows, which my friend the mad-doctor calls the
_maniac-frown_. It was with this expression of face that I should have
liked to paint him; but I felt that he would not have liked it, that it
was more fair to him to represent him in his mere wholesome pink and
white and blond conventionality. I was perhaps rather unconscientious
about the likeness of Mr. Oke; I felt satisfied to paint it no matter
how, I mean as regards character, for my whole mind was swallowed up
in thinking how I should paint Mrs. Oke, how I could best transport on
to canvas that singular and enigmatic personality. I began with her
husband, and told her frankly that I must have much longer to study
her. Mr. Oke couldn’t understand why it should be necessary to make a
hundred and one pencil-sketches of his wife before even determining in
what attitude to paint her; but I think he was rather pleased to have
an opportunity of keeping me at Okehurst; my presence evidently broke
the monotony of his life. Mrs. Oke seemed perfectly indifferent to
my staying, as she was perfectly indifferent to my presence. Without
being rude, I never saw a woman pay so little attention to a guest;
she would talk with me sometimes by the hour, or rather let me talk
to her, but she never seemed to be listening. She would lie back in a
big seventeenth-century armchair while I played the piano, with that
strange smile every now and then in her thin cheeks, that strange
whiteness in her eyes; but it seemed a matter of indifference whether
my music stopped or went on. In my portrait of her husband she did
not take, or pretend to take, the very faintest interest; but that
was nothing to me. I did not want Mrs. Oke to think me interesting; I
merely wished to go on studying her.

The first time that Mrs. Oke seemed to become at all aware of my
presence as distinguished from that of the chairs and tables, the dogs
that lay in the porch, or the clergyman or lawyer or stray neighbour
who was occasionally asked to dinner, was one day—I might have been
there a week—when I chanced to remark to her upon the very singular
resemblance that existed between herself and the portrait of a lady
that hung in the hall with the ceiling like a ship’s hull. The picture
in question was a full length, neither very good nor very bad, probably
done by some stray Italian of the early seventeenth century. It hung
in a rather dark corner, facing the portrait, evidently painted to be
its companion, of a dark man, with a somewhat unpleasant expression
of resolution and efficiency, in a black Vandyck dress. The two were
evidently man and wife; and in the corner of the woman’s portrait
were the words, “Alice Oke, daughter of Virgil Pomfret, Esq., and
wife to Nicholas Oke of Okehurst,” and the date 1626—“Nicholas Oke”
being the name painted in the corner of the small portrait. The lady
was really wonderfully like the present Mrs. Oke, at least so far as
an indifferently painted portrait of the early days of Charles I, can
be like a living woman of the nineteenth century. There were the same
strange lines of figure and face, the same dimples in the thin cheeks,
the same wide-opened eyes, the same vague eccentricity of expression,
not destroyed even by the feeble painting and conventional manner of
the time. One could fancy that this woman had the same walk, the same
beautiful line of nape of the neck and stooping head as her descendant;
for I found that Mr. and Mrs. Oke, who were first cousins, were both
descended from that Nicholas Oke and that Alice, daughter of Virgil
Pomfret. But the resemblance was heightened by the fact that, as I soon
saw, the present Mrs. Oke distinctly made herself up to look like her
ancestress, dressing in garments that had a seventeenth-century look;
nay, that were sometimes absolutely copied from this portrait.

“You think I am like her,” answered Mrs. Oke dreamily to my remark, and
her eyes wandered off to that unseen something, and the faint smile
dimpled her thin cheeks.

“You are like her, and you know it. I may even say you wish to be like
her, Mrs. Oke,” I answered, laughing.

“Perhaps I do.”

And she looked in the direction of her husband. I noticed that he had
an expression of distinct annoyance besides that frown of his.

“Isn’t it true that Mrs. Oke tries to look like that portrait?” I
asked, with a perverse curiosity.

“Oh, fudge!” he exclaimed, rising from his chair and walking nervously
to the window. “It’s all nonsense, mere nonsense. I wish you wouldn’t,
Alice.”

“Wouldn’t what?” asked Mrs. Oke, with a sort of contemptuous
indifference. “If I am like that Alice Oke, why I am; and I am very
pleased any one should think so. She and her husband are just about the
only two members of our family—our most flat, stale, and unprofitable
family—that ever were in the least degree interesting.”

Oke grew crimson, and frowned as if in pain.

“I don’t see why you should abuse our family, Alice,” he said. “Thank
God, our people have always been honourable and upright men and women!”

“Excepting always Nicholas Oke and Alice his wife, daughter of Virgil
Pomfret, Esq.,” she answered, laughing, as he strode out into the park.

“How childish he is!” she exclaimed when we were alone. “He really
minds, really feels disgraced by what our ancestors did two centuries
and a half ago. I do believe William would have those two portraits
taken down and burned if he weren’t afraid of me and ashamed of the
neighbours. And as it is, these two people really are the only two
members of our family that ever were in the least interesting. I will
tell you the story some day.”

As it was, the story was told to me by Oke himself. The next day, as we
were taking our morning walk, he suddenly broke a long silence, laying
about him all the time at the sere grasses with the hooked stick that
he carried, like the conscientious Kentishman he was, for the purpose
of cutting down his and other folk’s thistles.

“I fear you must have thought me very ill-mannered towards my wife
yesterday,” he said shyly; “and indeed I know I was.”

Oke was one of those chivalrous beings to whom every woman, every
wife—and his own most of all—appeared in the light of something holy.
“But—but—I have a prejudice which my wife does not enter into, about
raking up ugly things in one’s own family. I suppose Alice thinks that
it is so long ago that it has really got no connection with us; she
thinks of it merely as a picturesque story. I daresay many people feel
like that; in short, I am sure they do, otherwise there wouldn’t be
such lots of discreditable family traditions afloat. But I feel as if
it were all one whether it was long ago or not; when it’s a question of
one’s own people, I would rather have it forgotten. I can’t understand
how people can talk about murders in their families, and ghosts, and so
forth.”

“Have you any ghosts at Okehurst, by the way?” I asked. The place
seemed as if it required some to complete it.

“I hope not,” answered Oke gravely.

His gravity made me smile.

“Why, would you dislike it if there were?” I asked.

“If there are such things as ghosts,” he replied, “I don’t think they
should be taken lightly. God would not permit them to be, except as a
warning or a punishment.”

We walked on some time in silence, I wondering at the strange type of
this commonplace young man, and half wishing I could put something into
my portrait that should be the equivalent of this curious unimaginative
earnestness. Then Oke told me the story of those two pictures—told it
me about as badly and hesitatingly as was possible for mortal man.

He and his wife were, as I have said, cousins, and therefore descended
from the same old Kentish stock. The Okes of Okehurst could trace back
to Norman, almost to Saxon times, far longer than any of the titled or
better-known families of the neighbourhood. I saw that William Oke, in
his heart, thoroughly looked down upon all his neighbours. “We have
never done anything particular, or been anything particular—never held
any office,” he said; “but we have always been here, and apparently
always done our duty. An ancestor of ours was killed in the Scotch
wars, another at Agincourt—mere honest captains.” Well, early in the
seventeenth century, the family had dwindled to a single member,
Nicholas Oke, the same who had rebuilt Okehurst in its present shape.
This Nicholas appears to have been somewhat different from the usual
run of the family. He had, in his youth, sought adventures in America,
and seems, generally speaking, to have been less of a nonentity than
his ancestors. He married, when no longer very young, Alice, daughter
of Virgil Pomfret, a beautiful young heiress from a neighbouring
county. “It was the first time an Oke married a Pomfret,” my host
informed me, “and the last time. The Pomfrets were quite different sort
of people—restless, self-seeking; one of them had been a favourite
of Henry VIII.” It was clear that William Oke had no feeling of
having any Pomfret blood in his veins; he spoke of these people with
an evident family dislike—the dislike of an Oke, one of the old,
honourable, modest stock, which had quietly done its duty, for a family
of fortune-seekers and Court minions. Well, there had come to live
near Okehurst, in a little house recently inherited from an uncle, a
certain Christopher Lovelock, a young gallant and poet, who was in
momentary disgrace at Court for some love affair. This Lovelock had
struck up a great friendship with his neighbours of Okehurst—too great
a friendship, apparently, with the wife, either for her husband’s
taste or her own. Anyhow, one evening as he was riding home alone,
Lovelock had been attacked and murdered, ostensibly by highwaymen, but
as was afterwards rumoured, by Nicholas Oke, accompanied by his wife
dressed as a groom. No legal evidence had been got, but the tradition
had remained. “They used to tell it us when we were children,” said my
host, in a hoarse voice, “and to frighten my cousin—I mean my wife—and
me with stories about Lovelock. It is merely a tradition, which I hope
may die out, as I sincerely pray to heaven that it may be false.”
“Alice—Mrs. Oke—you see,” he went on after some time, “doesn’t feel
about it as I do. Perhaps I am morbid. But I do dislike having the old
story raked up.”

And we said no more on the subject.

                                   4

From that moment I began to assume a certain interest in the eyes of
Mrs. Oke; or rather, I began to perceive that I had a means of securing
her attention. Perhaps it was wrong of me to do so; and I have often
reproached myself very seriously later on. But after all, how was I to
guess that I was making mischief merely by chiming in, for the sake of
the portrait I had undertaken, and of a very harmless psychological
mania, with what was merely the fad, the little romantic affectation
or eccentricity, of a scatter-brained and eccentric young woman? How
in the world should I have dreamed that I was handling explosive
substances? A man is surely not responsible if the people with whom he
is forced to deal, and whom he deals with as with all the rest of the
world, are quite different from all other human creatures.

So, if indeed I did at all conduce to mischief, I really cannot
blame myself. I had met in Mrs. Oke an almost unique subject for a
portrait-painter of my particular sort, and a most singular, _bizarre_
personality. I could not possibly do my subject justice so long as I
was kept at a distance, prevented from studying the real character of
the woman. I required to put her into play. And I ask you whether any
more innocent way of doing so could be found than talking to a woman,
and letting her talk, about an absurd fancy she had for a couple of
ancestors of hers of the time of Charles I., and a poet whom they had
murdered?—particularly as I studiously respected the prejudices of my
host, and refrained from mentioning the matter, and tried to restrain
Mrs. Oke from doing so, in the presence of William Oke himself.

I had certainly guessed correctly. To resemble the Alice Oke of the
year 1626 was the caprice, the mania, the pose, the whatever you may
call it, of the Alice Oke of 1880; and to perceive this resemblance was
the sure way of gaining her good graces. It was the most extraordinary
craze, of all the extraordinary crazes of childless and idle women,
that I had ever met; but it was more than that, it was admirably
characteristic. It finished off the strange figure of Mrs. Oke, as
I saw it in my imagination—this _bizarre_ creature of enigmatic,
far-fetched exquisiteness—that she should have no interest in the
present, but only an eccentric passion in the past. It seemed to give
the meaning to the absent look in her eyes, to her irrelevant and
far-off smile. It was like the words to a weird piece of gipsy music,
this that she, who was so different, so distant from all women of her
own time, should try and identify herself with a woman of the past—that
she should have a kind of flirtation—But of this anon.

I told Mrs. Oke that I had learnt from her husband the outline of
the tragedy, or mystery, whichever it was, of Alice Oke, daughter of
Virgil Pomfret, and the poet Christopher Lovelock. That look of vague
contempt, of a desire to shock, which I had noticed before, came into
her beautiful, pale, diaphanous face.

“I suppose my husband was very shocked at the whole matter,” she
said—“told it you with as little detail as possible, and assured you
very solemnly that he hoped the whole story might be a mere dreadful
calumny? Poor Willie! I remember already when we were children, and
I used to come with my mother to spend Christmas at Okehurst, and my
cousin was down here for his holidays, how I used to horrify him by
insisting upon dressing up in shawls and waterproofs, and playing the
story of the wicked Mrs. Oke; and he always piously refused to do the
part of Nicholas, when I wanted to have the scene on Cotes Common. I
didn’t know then that I was like the original Alice Oke; I found it out
only after our marriage. You really think that I am?”

She certainly was, particularly at that moment, as she stood in a white
Vandyck dress, with the green of the park-land rising up behind her,
and the low sun catching her short locks and surrounding her head,
her exquisitely bowed head, with a pale-yellow halo. But I confess
I thought the original Alice Oke, siren and murderess though she
might be, very uninteresting compared with this wayward and exquisite
creature whom I had rashly promised myself to send down to posterity in
all her unlikely wayward exquisiteness.

One morning while Mr. Oke was despatching his Saturday heap of
Conservative manifestoes and rural decisions—he was justice of the
peace in a most literal sense, penetrating into cottages and huts,
defending the weak and admonishing the ill-conducted—one morning while
I was making one of my many pencil-sketches (alas, they are all that
remain to me now!) of my future sitter, Mrs. Oke gave me her version of
the story of Alice Oke and Christopher Lovelock.

“Do you suppose there was anything between them?” I asked—“that she
was ever in love with him? How do you explain the part which tradition
ascribes to her in the supposed murder? One has heard of women and
their lovers who have killed the husband; but a woman who combines with
her husband to kill her lover, or at least the man who is in love with
her—that is surely very singular.” I was absorbed in my drawing, and
really thinking very little of what I was saying.

“I don’t know,” she answered pensively, with that distant look in her
eyes. “Alice Oke was very proud, I am sure. She may have loved the poet
very much, and yet been indignant with him, hated having to love him.
She may have felt that she had a right to rid herself of him, and to
call upon her husband to help her to do so.”

“Good heavens! what a fearful idea!” I exclaimed, half laughing.
“Don’t you think, after all, that Mr. Oke may be right in saying that
it is easier and more comfortable to take the whole story as a pure
invention?”

“I cannot take it as an invention,” answered Mrs. Oke contemptuously,
“because I happen to know that it is true.”

“Indeed!” I answered, working away at my sketch, and enjoying putting
this strange creature, as I said to myself, through her paces; “how is
that?”

“How does one know that anything is true in this world?” she replied
evasively; “because one does, because one feels it to be true, I
suppose.”

And, with that far-off look in her light eyes, she relapsed into
silence.

“Have you ever read any of Lovelock’s poetry?” she asked me suddenly
the next day.

“Lovelock?” I answered, for I had forgotten the name. “Lovelock,
who”—But I stopped, remembering the prejudices of my host, who was
seated next to me at table.

“Lovelock who was killed by Mr. Oke’s and my ancestors.”

And she looked full at her husband, as if in perverse enjoyment of the
evident annoyance which it caused him.

“Alice,” he entreated in a low voice, his whole face crimson, “for
mercy’s sake, don’t talk about such things before the servants.”

Mrs. Oke burst into a high, light, rather hysterical laugh, the laugh
of a naughty child.

“The servants! Gracious heavens! do you suppose they haven’t heard the
story? Why, it’s as well known as Okehurst itself in the neighbourhood.
Don’t they believe that Lovelock has been seen about the house? Haven’t
they all heard his footsteps in the big corridor? Haven’t they, my dear
Willie, noticed a thousand times that you never will stay a minute
alone in the yellow drawing-room—that you run out of it, like a child,
if I happen to leave you there for a minute?”

True! How was it I had not noticed that? or rather, that I only now
remembered having noticed it? The yellow drawing-room was one of the
most charming rooms in the house: a large, bright room, hung with
yellow damask and panelled with carvings, that opened straight out on
to the lawn, far superior to the room in which we habitually sat, which
was comparatively gloomy. This time Mr. Oke struck me as really too
childish. I felt an intense desire to badger him.

“The yellow drawing-room!” I exclaimed. “Does this interesting literary
character haunt the yellow drawing-room? Do tell me about it. What
happened there?”

Mr. Oke made a painful effort to laugh.

“Nothing ever happened there, so far as I know,” he said, and rose from
the table.

“Really?” I asked incredulously.

“Nothing did happen there,” answered Mrs. Oke slowly, playing
mechanically with a fork, and picking out the pattern of the
tablecloth. “That is just the extraordinary circumstance, that, so far
as any one knows, nothing ever did happen there; and yet that room has
an evil reputation. No member of our family, they say, can bear to sit
there alone for more than a minute. You see, William evidently cannot.”

“Have you ever seen or heard anything strange there?” I asked of my
host.

He shook his head. “Nothing,” he answered curtly, and lit his cigar.

“I presume you have not,” I asked, half laughing, of Mrs. Oke, “since
you don’t mind sitting in that room for hours alone? How do you explain
this uncanny reputation, since nothing ever happened there?”

“Perhaps something is destined to happen there in the future,” she
answered, in her absent voice. And then she suddenly added, “Suppose
you paint my portrait in that room?”

Mr. Oke suddenly turned round. He was very white, and looked as if he
were going to say something, but desisted.

“Why do you worry Mr. Oke like that?” I asked, when he had gone into
his smoking-room with his usual bundle of papers. “It is very cruel
of you, Mrs. Oke. You ought to have more consideration for people who
believe in such things, although you may not be able to put yourself in
their frame of mind.”

“Who tells you that I don’t believe in _such things_, as you call
them?” she answered abruptly.

“Come,” she said, after a minute, “I want to show you why I believe in
Christopher Lovelock. Come with me into the yellow room.”

                                   5

What Mrs. Oke showed me in the yellow room was a large bundle of
papers, some printed and some manuscript, but all of them brown with
age, which she took out of an old Italian ebony inlaid cabinet. It took
her some time to get them, as a complicated arrangement of double locks
and false drawers had to be put in play; and while she was doing so,
I looked round the room, in which I had been only three or four times
before. It was certainly the most beautiful room in this beautiful
house, and, as it seemed to me now, the most strange. It was long and
low, with something that made you think of the cabin of a ship, with a
great mullioned window that let in, as it were, a perspective of the
brownish green park-land, dotted with oaks, and sloping upwards to the
distant line of bluish firs against the horizon. The walls were hung
with flowered damask, whose yellow, faded to brown, united with the
reddish colour of the carved wainscoting and the carved oaken beams.
For the rest, it reminded me more of an Italian room than an English
one. The furniture was Tuscan of the early seventeenth century, inlaid
and carved; there were a couple of faded allegorical pictures, by some
Bolognese master, on the walls; and in a corner, among a stack of
dwarf orange-trees, a little Italian harpsichord of exquisite curve
and slenderness, with flowers and landscapes painted upon its cover.
In a recess was a shelf of old books, mainly English and Italian
poets of the Elizabethan time; and close by it, placed upon a carved
wedding-chest, a large and beautiful melon-shaped lute. The panes of
the mullioned window were open, and yet the air seemed heavy, with an
indescribable heady perfume, not that of any growing flower, but like
that of old stuff that should have lain for years among spices.

“It is a beautiful room!” I exclaimed. “I should awfully like to paint
you in it”; but I had scarcely spoken the words when I felt I had done
wrong. This woman’s husband could not bear the room, and it seemed to
me vaguely as if he were right in detesting it.

Mrs. Oke took no notice of my exclamation, but beckoned me to the table
where she was standing sorting the papers.

“Look!” she said, “these are all poems by Christopher Lovelock”;
and touching the yellow papers with delicate and reverent fingers,
she commenced reading some of them out loud in a slow, half-audible
voice. They were songs in the style of those of Herrick, Waller, and
Drayton, complaining for the most part of the cruelty of a lady called
Dryope, in whose name was evidently concealed a reference to that of
the mistress of Okehurst. The songs were graceful, and not without a
certain faded passion: but I was thinking not of them, but of the woman
who was reading them to me.

Mrs. Oke was standing with the brownish yellow wall as a background to
her white brocade dress, which, in its stiff seventeenth-century make,
seemed but to bring out more clearly the slightness, the exquisite
suppleness, of her tall figure. She held the papers in one hand, and
leaned the other, as if for support, on the inlaid cabinet by her side.
Her voice, which was delicate, shadowy, like her person, had a curious
throbbing cadence, as if she were reading the words of a melody, and
restraining herself with difficulty from singing it; and as she read,
her long slender throat throbbed slightly, and a faint redness came
into her thin face. She evidently knew the verses by heart, and her
eyes were mostly fixed with that distant smile in them, with which
harmonised a constant tremulous little smile in her lips.

“That is how I would wish to paint her!” I exclaimed within myself; and
scarcely noticed, what struck me on thinking over the scene, that this
strange being read these verses as one might fancy a woman would read
love-verses addressed to herself.

“Those are all written for Alice Oke—Alice the daughter of Virgil
Pomfret,” she said slowly, folding up the papers. “I found them at the
bottom of this cabinet. Can you doubt of the reality of Christopher
Lovelock now?”

The question was an illogical one, for to doubt of the existence of
Christopher Lovelock was one thing, and to doubt of the mode of his
death was another; but somehow I did feel convinced.

“Look!” she said, when she had replaced the poems, “I will show you
something else.” Among the flowers that stood on the upper storey of
her writing-table—for I found that Mrs. Oke had a writing-table in the
yellow room—stood, as on an altar, a small black carved frame, with a
silk curtain drawn over it: the sort of thing behind which you would
have expected to find a head of Christ or of the Virgin Mary. She drew
the curtain and displayed a large-sized miniature, representing a young
man, with auburn curls and a peaked auburn beard, dressed in black, but
with lace about his neck, and large pear-shaped pearls in his ears: a
wistful, melancholy face. Mrs. Oke took the miniature religiously off
its stand, and showed me, written in faded characters upon the back,
the name “Christopher Lovelock,” and the date 1626.

“I found this in the secret drawer of that cabinet, together with the
heap of poems,” she said, taking the miniature out of my hand.

I was silent for a minute.

“Does—does Mr. Oke know that you have got it here?” I asked; and then
wondered what in the world had impelled me to put such a question.

Mrs. Oke smiled that smile of contemptuous indifference. “I have never
hidden it from any one. If my husband disliked my having it, he might
have taken it away, I suppose. It belongs to him, since it was found in
his house.”

I did not answer, but walked mechanically towards the door. There was
something heady and oppressive in this beautiful room; something, I
thought, almost repulsive in this exquisite woman. She seemed to me,
suddenly, perverse and dangerous.

I scarcely know why, but I neglected Mrs. Oke that afternoon. I went to
Mr. Oke’s study, and sat opposite to him smoking while he was engrossed
in his accounts, his reports, and electioneering papers. On the table,
above the heap of paper-bound volumes and pigeon-holed documents, was,
as sole ornament of his den, a little photograph of his wife, done some
years before. I don’t know why, but as I sat and watched him, with his
florid, honest, manly beauty, working away conscientiously, with that
little perplexed frown of his, I felt intensely sorry for this man.

But this feeling did not last. There was no help for it: Oke was not as
interesting as Mrs. Oke; and it required too great an effort to pump
up sympathy for this normal, excellent, exemplary young squire, in the
presence of so wonderful a creature as his wife. So I let myself go to
the habit of allowing Mrs. Oke daily to talk over her strange craze, or
rather of drawing her out about it. I confess that I derived a morbid
and exquisite pleasure in doing so: it was so characteristic in her, so
appropriate to the house! It completed her personality so perfectly,
and made it so much easier to conceive a way of painting her. I made
up my mind little by little, while working at William Oke’s portrait
(he proved a less easy subject than I had anticipated, and, despite his
conscientious efforts, was a nervous, uncomfortable sitter, silent and
brooding)—I made up my mind that I would paint Mrs. Oke standing by
the cabinet in the yellow room, in the white Vandyck dress copied from
the portrait of her ancestress. Mr. Oke might resent it, Mrs. Oke even
might resent it; they might refuse to take the picture, to pay for it,
to allow me to exhibit; they might force me to run my umbrella through
the picture. No matter. That picture should be painted, if merely for
the sake of having painted it; for I felt it was the only thing I
could do, and that it would be far away my best work. I told neither
of my resolution, but prepared sketch after sketch of Mrs. Oke, while
continuing to paint her husband.

Mrs. Oke was a silent person, more silent even than her husband, for
she did not feel bound, as he did, to attempt to entertain a guest or
to show any interest in him. She seemed to spend her life—a curious,
inactive, half-invalidish life, broken by sudden fits of childish
cheerfulness—in an eternal daydream, strolling about the house and
grounds, arranging the quantities of flowers that always filled all
the rooms, beginning to read and then throwing aside novels and books
of poetry, of which she always had a large number; and, I believe,
lying for hours, doing nothing, on a couch in that yellow drawing-room,
which, with her sole exception, no member of the Oke family had ever
been known to stay in alone. Little by little I began to suspect and to
verify another eccentricity of this eccentric being, and to understand
why there were stringent orders never to disturb her in that yellow
room.

It had been a habit at Okehurst, as at one or two other English
manor-houses, to keep a certain amount of the clothes of each
generation, more particularly wedding dresses. A certain carved oaken
press, of which Mr. Oke once displayed the contents to me, was a
perfect museum of costumes, male and female, from the early years
of the seventeenth to the end of the eighteenth century—a thing to
take away the breath of a _bric-a-brac_ collector, an antiquary, or
a _genre_ painter. Mr. Oke was none of these, and therefore took but
little interest in the collection, save in so far as it interested his
family feeling. Still he seemed well acquainted with the contents of
that press.

He was turning over the clothes for my benefit, when suddenly I noticed
that he frowned. I know not what impelled me to say, “By the way, have
you any dresses of that Mrs. Oke whom your wife resembles so much? Have
you got that particular white dress she was painted in, perhaps?”

Oke of Okehurst flushed very red.

“We have it,” he answered hesitatingly, “but—it isn’t here at present—I
can’t find it. I suppose,” he blurted out with an effort, “that Alice
has got it. Mrs. Oke sometimes has the fancy of having some of these
old things down. I suppose she takes ideas from them.”

A sudden light dawned in my mind. The white dress in which I had seen
Mrs. Oke in the yellow room, the day that she showed me Lovelock’s
verses, was not, as I had thought, a modern copy; it was the original
dress of Alice Oke, the daughter of Virgil Pomfret—the dress in which,
perhaps, Christopher Lovelock had seen her in that very room.

The idea gave me a delightful picturesque shudder. I said nothing. But
I pictured to myself Mrs. Oke sitting in that yellow room—that room
which no Oke of Okehurst save herself ventured to remain in alone,
in the dress of her ancestress, confronting, as it were, that vague,
haunting something that seemed to fill the place—that vague presence,
it seemed to me, of the murdered cavalier poet.

Mrs. Oke, as I have said, was extremely silent, as a result of being
extremely indifferent. She really did not care in the least about
anything except her own ideas and day-dreams, except when, every now
and then, she was seized with a sudden desire to shock the prejudices
or superstitions of her husband. Very soon she got into the way of
never talking to me at all, save about Alice and Nicholas Oke and
Christopher Lovelock; and then, when the fit seized her, she would go
on by the hour, never asking herself whether I was or was not equally
interested in the strange craze that fascinated her. It so happened
that I was. I loved to listen to her, going on discussing by the hour
the merits of Lovelock’s poems, and analysing her feelings and those
of her two ancestors. It was quite wonderful to watch the exquisite,
exotic creature in one of these moods, with the distant look in her
grey eyes and the absent-looking smile in her thin cheeks, talking as
if she had intimately known these people of the seventeenth century,
discussing every minute mood of theirs, detailing every scene between
them and their victim, talking of Alice, and Nicholas, and Lovelock
as she might of her most intimate friends. Of Alice particularly, and
of Lovelock. She seemed to know every word that Alice had spoken,
every idea that had crossed her mind. It sometimes struck me as if
she were telling me, speaking of herself in the third person, of her
own feelings—as if I were listening to a woman’s confidences, the
recital of her doubts, scruples, and agonies about a living lover. For
Mrs. Oke, who seemed the most self-absorbed of creatures in all other
matters, and utterly incapable of understanding or sympathising with
the feelings of other persons, entered completely and passionately into
the feelings of this woman, this Alice, who, at some moments, seemed to
be not another woman, but herself.

“But how could she do it—how could she kill the man she cared for?” I
once asked her.

“Because she loved him more than the whole world!” she exclaimed, and
rising suddenly from her chair, walked towards the window, covering her
face with her hands.

I could see, from the movement of her neck, that she was sobbing. She
did not turn round, but motioned me to go away.

“Don’t let us talk any more about it,” she said. “I am ill to-day, and
silly.”

I closed the door gently behind me. What mystery was there in this
woman’s life? This listlessness, this strange self-engrossment and
stranger mania about people long dead, this indifference and desire
to annoy towards her husband—did it all mean that Alice Oke had loved
or still loved some one who was not the master of Okehurst? And his
melancholy, his preoccupation, the something about him that told of a
broken youth—did it mean that he knew it?

                                   6

The following days Mrs. Oke was in a condition of quite unusual good
spirits. Some visitors—distant relatives—were expected, and although
she had expressed the utmost annoyance at the idea of their coming, she
was now seized with a fit of housekeeping activity, and was perpetually
about arranging things and giving orders, although all arrangements, as
usual, had been made, and all orders given, by her husband.

William Oke was quite radiant.

“If only Alice were always well like this!” he exclaimed; “if only she
would take, or could take, an interest in life, how different things
would be! But,” he added, as if fearful lest he should be supposed to
accuse her in any way, “how can she, usually, with her wretched health?
Still, it does make me awfully happy to see her like this.”

I nodded. But I cannot say that I really acquiesced in his views.
It seemed to me, particularly with the recollection of yesterday’s
extraordinary scene, that Mrs. Oke’s high spirits were anything but
normal. There was something in her unusual activity and still more
unusual cheerfulness that was merely nervous and feverish; and I had,
the whole day, the impression of dealing with a woman who was ill and
who would very speedily collapse.

Mrs. Oke spent her day wandering from one room to another, and from
the garden to the greenhouse, seeing whether all was in order, when,
as a matter of fact, all was always in order at Okehurst. She did
not give me any sitting, and not a word was spoken about Alice Oke
or Christopher Lovelock. Indeed, to a casual observer, it might have
seemed as if all that craze about Lovelock had completely departed,
or never existed. About five o’clock, as I was strolling among the
red-brick round-gabled outhouses—each with its armorial oak—and the
old-fashioned spalliered kitchen and fruit garden, I saw Mrs. Oke
standing, her hands full of York and Lancaster roses, upon the steps
facing the stables. A groom was currycombing a horse, and outside the
coach-house was Mr. Oke’s little high-wheeled cart.

“Let us have a drive!” suddenly exclaimed Mrs. Oke, on seeing me. “Look
what a beautiful evening—and look at that dear little cart! It is so
long since I have driven, and I feel as if I must drive again. Come
with me. And you, harness Jim at once and come round to the door.”

I was quite amazed; and still more so when the cart drove up before the
door, and Mrs. Oke called to me to accompany her. She sent away the
groom, and in a minute we were rolling along, at a tremendous pace,
along the yellow-sand road, with the sere pasture-lands, the big oaks,
on either side.

I could scarcely believe my senses. This woman, in her mannish little
coat and hat, driving a powerful young horse with the utmost skill, and
chattering like a school-girl of sixteen, could not be the delicate,
morbid, exotic, hot-house creature, unable to walk or to do anything,
who spent her days lying about on couches in the heavy atmosphere,
redolent with strange scents and associations, of the yellow
drawing-room. The movement of the light carriage, the cool draught, the
very grind of the wheels upon the gravel, seemed to go to her head like
wine.

“It is so long since I have done this sort of thing,” she kept
repeating; “so long, so long. Oh, don’t you think it delightful, going
at this pace, with the idea that any moment the horse may come down and
we two be killed?” and she laughed her childish laugh, and turned her
face, no longer pale, but flushed with the movement and the excitement,
towards me.

The cart rolled on quicker and quicker, one gate after another swinging
to behind us, as we flew up and down the little hills, across the
pasture lands, through the little red-brick gabled villages, where the
people came out to see us pass, past the rows of willows along the
streams, and the dark-green compact hop-fields, with the blue and hazy
tree-tops of the horizon getting bluer and more hazy as the yellow
light began to graze the ground. At last we got to an open space, a
high-lying piece of common-land, such as is rare in that ruthlessly
utilised country of grazing-grounds and hop-gardens. Among the low
hills of the Weald, it seemed quite preternaturally high up, giving a
sense that its extent of flat heather and gorse, bound by distant firs,
was really on the top of the world. The sun was setting just opposite,
and its lights lay flat on the ground, staining it with the red and
black of the heather, or rather turning it into the surface of a purple
sea, canopied over by a bank of dark-purple clouds—the jet-like sparkle
of the dry ling and gorse tipping the purple like sunlit wavelets. A
cold wind swept in our faces.

“What is the name of this place?” I asked. It was the only bit of
impressive scenery that I had met in the neighbourhood of Okehurst.

“It is called Cotes Common,” answered Mrs. Oke, who had slackened the
pace of the horse, and let the reins hang loose about his neck. “It was
here that Christopher Lovelock was killed.”

There was a moment’s pause; and then she proceeded, tickling the flies
from the horse’s ears with the end of her whip, and looking straight
into the sunset, which now rolled, a deep purple stream, across the
heath to our feet—

“Lovelock was riding home one summer evening from Appledore, when,
as he had got half-way across Cotes Common, somewhere about here—for
I have always heard them mention the pond in the old gravel-pits as
about the place—he saw two men riding towards him, in whom he presently
recognised Nicholas Oke of Okehurst accompanied by a groom. Oke of
Okehurst hailed him; and Lovelock rode up to meet him. ‘I am glad
to have met you, Mr. Lovelock,’ said Nicholas, ‘because I have some
important news for you’; and so saying, he brought his horse close to
the one that Lovelock was riding, and suddenly turning round, fired
off a pistol at his head. Lovelock had time to move, and the bullet,
instead of striking him, went straight into the head of his horse,
which fell beneath him. Lovelock, however, had fallen in such a way
as to be able to extricate himself easily from his horse; and drawing
his sword, he rushed upon Oke, and seized his horse by the bridle. Oke
quickly jumped off and drew his sword; and in a minute, Lovelock, who
was much the better swordsman of the two, was having the better of
him. Lovelock had completely disarmed him, and got his sword at Oke’s
throat, crying out to him that if he would ask forgiveness he should be
spared for the sake of their old friendship, when the groom suddenly
rode up from behind and shot Lovelock through the back. Lovelock fell,
and Oke immediately tried to finish him with his sword, while the groom
drew up and held the bridle of Oke’s horse. At that moment the sunlight
fell upon the groom’s face, and Lovelock recognised Mrs. Oke. He cried
out, ‘Alice, Alice! it is you who have murdered me!’ and died. Then
Nicholas Oke sprang into his saddle and rode off with his wife, leaving
Lovelock dead by the side of his fallen horse. Nicholas Oke had taken
the precaution of removing Lovelock’s purse and throwing it into the
pond, so the murder was put down to certain highwaymen who were about
in that part of the country. Alice Oke died many years afterwards,
quite an old woman, in the reign of Charles II.; but Nicholas did not
live very long, and shortly before his death got into a very strange
condition, always brooding, and sometimes threatening to kill his wife.
They say that in one of these fits, just shortly before his death, he
told the whole story of the murder, and made a prophecy that when the
head of his house and master of Okehurst should marry another Alice Oke
descended from himself and his wife, there should be an end of the Okes
of Okehurst. You see, it seems to be coming true. We have no children,
and I don’t suppose we shall ever have any. I, at least, have never
wished for them.”

Mrs. Oke paused, and turned her face towards me with the absent smile
in her thin cheeks: her eyes no longer had that distant look; they
were strangely eager and fixed. I did not know what to answer; this
woman positively frightened me. We remained for a moment in that same
place, with the sunlight dying away in crimson ripples on the heather,
gilding the yellow banks, the black waters of the pond, surrounded by
thin rushes, and the yellow gravel-pits; while the wind blew in our
faces and bent the ragged warped bluish tops of the firs. Then Mrs.
Oke touched the horse, and off we went at a furious pace. We did not
exchange a single word, I think, on the way home. Mrs. Oke sat with
her eyes fixed on the reins, breaking the silence now and then only
by a word to the horse, urging him to an even more furious pace. The
people we met along the roads must have thought that the horse was
running away, unless they noticed Mrs. Oke’s calm manner and the look
of excited enjoyment in her face. To me it seemed that I was in the
hands of a madwoman, and I quietly prepared myself for being upset
or dashed against a cart. It had turned cold, and the draught was
icy in our faces when we got within sight of the red gables and high
chimney-stacks of Okehurst. Mr. Oke was standing before the door. On
our approach I saw a look of relieved suspense, of keen pleasure come
into his face.

He lifted his wife out of the cart in his strong arms with a kind of
chivalrous tenderness.

“I am so glad to have you back, darling,” he exclaimed—“so glad! I was
delighted to hear you had gone out with the cart, but as you have not
driven for so long, I was beginning to be frightfully anxious, dearest.
Where have you been all this time?”

Mrs. Oke had quickly extricated herself from her husband, who had
remained holding her, as one might hold a delicate child who has been
causing anxiety. The gentleness and affection of the poor fellow had
evidently not touched her—she seemed almost to recoil from it.

“I have taken him to Cotes Common,” she said, with that perverse look
which I had noticed before, as she pulled off her driving-gloves. “It
is such a splendid old place.”

Mr. Oke flushed as if he had bitten upon a sore tooth, and the double
gash painted itself scarlet between his eyebrows.

Outside, the mists were beginning to rise, veiling the park-land dotted
with big black oaks, and from which, in the watery moonlight, rose
on all sides the eerie little cry of the lambs separated from their
mothers. It was damp and cold, and I shivered.

                                   7

The next day Okehurst was full of people, and Mrs. Oke, to my
amazement, was doing the honours of it as if a house full of
commonplace, noisy young creatures, bent upon flirting and tennis, were
her usual idea of felicity.

The afternoon of the third day—they had come for an electioneering
ball, and stayed three nights—the weather changed; it turned suddenly
very cold and began to pour. Every one was sent indoors, and there was
a general gloom suddenly over the company. Mrs. Oke seemed to have got
sick of her guests, and was listlessly lying back on a couch, paying
not the slightest attention to the chattering and piano-strumming
in the room, when one of the guests suddenly proposed that they
should play charades. He was a distant cousin of the Okes, a sort of
fashionable artistic Bohemian, swelled out to intolerable conceit by
the amateur-actor vogue of a season.

“It would be lovely in this marvellous old place,” he cried, “just to
dress up, and parade about, and feel as if we belonged to the past. I
have heard you have a marvellous collection of old costumes, more or
less ever since the days of Noah, somewhere, Cousin Bill.”

The whole party exclaimed in joy at this proposal. William Oke looked
puzzled for a moment, and glanced at his wife, who continued to lie
listless on her sofa.

“There is a press full of clothes belonging to the family,” he answered
dubiously, apparently overwhelmed by the desire to please his guests;
“but—but—I don’t know whether it’s quite respectful to dress up in the
clothes of dead people.”

“Oh, fiddlestick!” cried the cousin. “What do the dead people know
about it? Besides,” he added, with mock seriousness, “I assure you we
shall behave in the most reverent way and feel quite solemn about it
all, if only you will give us the key, old man.”

Again Mr. Oke looked towards his wife, and again met only her vague,
absent glance.

“Very well,” he said, and led his guests upstairs.

An hour later the house was filled with the strangest crew and the
strangest noises. I had entered, to a certain extent, into William
Oke’s feeling of unwillingness to let his ancestors’ clothes and
personality be taken in vain; but when the masquerade was complete,
I must say that the effect was quite magnificent. A dozen youngish
men and women—those who were staying in the house and some neighbours
who had come for lawn-tennis and dinner—were rigged out, under the
direction of the theatrical cousin, in the contents of that oaken
press: and I have never seen a more beautiful sight than the panelled
corridors, the carved and escutcheoned staircase, the dim drawing-rooms
with their faded tapestries, the great hall with its vaulted and
ribbed ceiling, dotted about with groups or single figures that seemed
to have come straight from the past. Even William Oke, who, besides
myself and a few elderly people, was the only man not masqueraded,
seemed delighted and fired by the sight. A certain schoolboy character
suddenly came out in him; and finding that there was no costume left
for him, he rushed upstairs and presently returned in the uniform he
had worn before his marriage. I thought I had really never seen so
magnificent a specimen of the handsome Englishman; he looked, despite
all the modern associations of his costume, more genuinely old-world
than all the rest, a knight for the Black Prince or Sidney, with his
admirably regular features and beautiful fair hair and complexion.
After a minute, even the elderly people had got costumes of some
sort—dominoes arranged at the moment, and hoods and all manner of
disguises made out of pieces of old embroidery and Oriental stuffs and
furs; and very soon this rabble of masquers had become, so to speak,
completely drunk with its own amusement—with the childishness, and, if
I may say so, the barbarism, the vulgarity underlying the majority even
of well-bred English men and women—Mr. Oke himself doing the mountebank
like a schoolboy at Christmas.

“Where is Mrs. Oke? Where is Alice?” some one suddenly asked.

Mrs. Oke had vanished. I could fully understand that to this eccentric
being, with her fantastic, imaginative, morbid passion for the past,
such a carnival as this must be positively revolting; and, absolutely
indifferent as she was to giving offence, I could imagine how she would
have retired, disgusted and outraged, to dream her strange day-dreams
in the yellow room.

But a moment later, as we were all noisily preparing to go in to
dinner, the door opened and a strange figure entered, stranger than
any of these others who were profaning the clothes of the dead: a boy,
slight and tall, in a brown riding-coat, leathern belt, and big buff
boots, a little grey cloak over one shoulder, a large grey hat slouched
over the eyes, a dagger and pistol at the waist. It was Mrs. Oke, her
eyes preternaturally bright, and her whole face lit up with a bold,
perverse smile.

Every one exclaimed, and stood aside. Then there was a moment’s
silence, broken by faint applause. Even to a crew of noisy boys and
girls playing the fool in the garments of men and women long dead and
buried, there is something questionable in the sudden appearance of a
young married woman, the mistress of the house, in a riding-coat and
jackboots; and Mrs. Oke’s expression did not make the jest seem any the
less questionable.

“What is that costume?” asked the theatrical cousin, who, after a
second, had come to the conclusion that Mrs. Oke was merely a woman of
marvellous talent whom he must try and secure for his amateur troop
next season.

“It is the dress in which an ancestress of ours, my namesake Alice Oke,
used to go out riding with her husband in the days of Charles I.,” she
answered, and took her seat at the head of the table. Involuntarily
my eyes sought those of Oke of Okehurst. He, who blushed as easily as
a girl of sixteen, was now as white as ashes, and I noticed that he
pressed his hand almost convulsively to his mouth.

“Don’t you recognise my dress, William?” asked Mrs. Oke, fixing her
eyes upon him with a cruel smile.

He did not answer, and there was a moment’s silence, which the
theatrical cousin had the happy thought of breaking by jumping upon his
seat and emptying off his glass with the exclamation—

“To the health of the two Alice Okes, of the past and the present!”

Mrs. Oke nodded, and with an expression I had never seen in her face
before, answered in a loud and aggressive tone—

“To the health of the poet, Mr. Christopher Lovelock, if his ghost be
honouring this house with its presence!”

I felt suddenly as if I were in a madhouse. Across the table, in
the midst of this room full of noisy wretches, tricked out red,
blue, purple, and parti-coloured, as men and women of the sixteenth,
seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries, as improvised Turks and Eskimos,
and dominoes, and clowns, with faces painted and corked and floured
over, I seemed to see that sanguine sunset, washing like a sea of blood
over the heather, to where, by the black pond and the wind-warped firs,
there lay the body of Christopher Lovelock, with his dead horse near
him, the yellow gravel and lilac ling soaked crimson all around; and
above emerged, as out of the redness, the pale blond head covered with
the grey hat, the absent eyes, and strange smile of Mrs. Oke. It seemed
to me horrible, vulgar, abominable, as if I had got inside a madhouse.

                                   8

From that moment I noticed a change in William Oke; or rather, a change
that had probably been coming on for some time got to the stage of
being noticeable.

I don’t know whether he had any words with his wife about her
masquerade of that unlucky evening. On the whole I decidedly think
not. Oke was with every one a diffident and reserved man, and most of
all so with his wife; besides, I can fancy that he would experience
a positive impossibility of putting into words any strong feeling of
disapprobation towards her, that his disgust would necessarily be
silent. But be this as it may, I perceived very soon that the relations
between my host and hostess had become exceedingly strained. Mrs. Oke,
indeed, had never paid much attention to her husband, and seemed merely
a trifle more indifferent to his presence than she had been before. But
Oke himself, although he affected to address her at meals from a desire
to conceal his feeling, and a fear of making the position disagreeable
to me, very clearly could scarcely bear to speak to or even see his
wife. The poor fellow’s honest soul was quite brimful of pain, which
he was determined not to allow to overflow, and which seemed to filter
into his whole nature and poison it. This woman had shocked and pained
him more than was possible to say, and yet it was evident that he could
neither cease loving her nor commence comprehending her real nature.
I sometimes felt, as we took our long walks through the monotonous
country, across the oak-dotted grazing-grounds, and by the brink of
the dull-green, serried hop-rows, talking at rare intervals about the
value of the crops, the drainage of the estate, the village schools,
the Primrose League, and the iniquities of Mr. Gladstone, while Oke of
Okehurst carefully cut down every tall thistle that caught his eye—I
sometimes felt, I say, an intense and impotent desire to enlighten this
man about his wife’s character. I seemed to understand it so well, and
to understand it well seemed to imply such a comfortable acquiescence;
and it seemed so unfair that just he should be condemned to puzzle for
ever over this enigma, and wear out his soul trying to comprehend what
now seemed so plain to me. But how would it ever be possible to get
this serious, conscientious, slow-brained representative of English
simplicity and honesty and thoroughness to understand the mixture of
self-engrossed vanity, of shallowness, of poetic vision, of love of
morbid excitement, that walked this earth under the name of Alice Oke?

So Oke of Okehurst was condemned never to understand; but he was
condemned also to suffer from his inability to do so. The poor
fellow was constantly straining after an explanation of his wife’s
peculiarities; and although the effort was probably unconscious, it
caused him a great deal of pain. The gash—the maniac-frown, as my
friend calls it—between his eyebrows, seemed to have grown a permanent
feature of his face.

Mrs. Oke, on her side, was making the very worst of the situation.
Perhaps she resented her husband’s tacit reproval of that masquerade
night’s freak, and determined to make him swallow more of the same
stuff, for she clearly thought that one of William’s peculiarities,
and one for which she despised him, was that he could never be goaded
into an outspoken expression of disapprobation; that from her he would
swallow any amount of bitterness without complaining. At any rate
she now adopted a perfect policy of teasing and shocking her husband
about the murder of Lovelock. She was perpetually alluding to it in
her conversation, discussing in his presence what had or had not
been the feelings of the various actors in the tragedy of 1626, and
insisting upon her resemblance and almost identity with the original
Alice Oke. Something had suggested to her eccentric mind that it
would be delightful to perform in the garden at Okehurst, under the
huge ilexes and elms, a little masque which she had discovered among
Christopher Lovelock’s works; and she began to scour the country and
enter into vast correspondence for the purpose of effectuating this
scheme. Letters arrived every other day from the theatrical cousin,
whose only objection was that Okehurst was too remote a locality for an
entertainment in which he foresaw great glory to himself. And every now
and then there would arrive some young gentleman or lady, whom Alice
Oke had sent for to see whether they would do.

I saw very plainly that the performance would never take place, and
that Mrs. Oke herself had no intention that it ever should. She was one
of those creatures to whom realisation of a project is nothing, and
who enjoy plan-making almost the more for knowing that all will stop
short at the plan. Meanwhile, this perpetual talk about the pastoral,
about Lovelock, this continual attitudinising as the wife of Nicholas
Oke, had the further attraction to Mrs. Oke of putting her husband
into a condition of frightful though suppressed irritation, which she
enjoyed with the enjoyment of a perverse child. You must not think that
I looked on indifferent, although I admit that this was a perfect treat
to an amateur student of character like myself. I really did feel most
sorry for poor Oke, and frequently quite indignant with his wife. I was
several times on the point of begging her to have more consideration
for him, even of suggesting that this kind of behavior, particularly
before a comparative stranger like me, was very poor taste. But there
was something elusive about Mrs. Oke, which made it next to impossible
to speak seriously with her; and besides, I was by no means sure that
any interference on my part would not merely animate her perversity.

One evening a curious incident took place. We had just sat down to
dinner, the Okes, the theatrical cousin, who was down for a couple of
days, and three or four neighbours. It was dusk, and the yellow light
of the candles mingled charmingly with the greyness of the evening.
Mrs. Oke was not well, and had been remarkably quiet all day, more
diaphanous, strange, and far-away than ever; and her husband seemed to
have felt a sudden return of tenderness, almost of compassion, for this
delicate, fragile creature. We had been talking of quite indifferent
matters, when I saw Mr. Oke suddenly turn very white, and look fixedly
for a moment at the window opposite to his seat.

“Who’s that fellow looking in at the window, and making signs to
you, Alice? Damn his impudence!” he cried, and jumping up, ran to
the window, opened it, and passed out into the twilight. We all
looked at each other in surprise; some of the party remarked upon the
carelessness of servants in letting nasty-looking fellows hang about
the kitchen, others told stories of tramps and burglars. Mrs. Oke did
not speak; but I noticed the curious, distant-looking smile in her thin
cheeks.

After a minute William Oke came in, his napkin in his hand. He shut the
window behind him and silently resumed his place.

“Well, who was it?” we all asked.

“Nobody. I—I must have made a mistake,” he answered, and turned
crimson, while he busily peeled a pear.

“It was probably Lovelock,” remarked Mrs. Oke, just as she might have
said, “It was probably the gardener,” but with that faint smile of
pleasure still in her face. Except the theatrical cousin, who burst
into a loud laugh, none of the company had ever heard Lovelock’s name,
and, doubtless imagining him to be some natural appanage of the Oke
family, groom or farmer, said nothing, so the subject dropped.

From that evening onwards things began to assume a different aspect.
That incident was the beginning of a perfect system—a system of what?
I scarcely know how to call it. A system of grim jokes on the part
of Mrs. Oke, of superstitious fancies on the part of her husband—a
system of mysterious persecutions on the part of some less earthly
tenant of Okehurst. Well, yes, after all, why not? We have all heard
of ghosts, had uncles, cousins, grandmothers, nurses, who have seen
them; we are all a bit afraid of them at the bottom of our soul; so why
shouldn’t they be? I am too sceptical to believe in the impossibility
of anything, for my part!

Besides, when a man has lived throughout a summer in the same house
with a woman like Mrs. Oke of Okehurst, he gets to believe in the
possibility of a great many improbable things, I assure you, as a mere
result of believing in her. And when you come to think of it, why not?
That a weird creature, visibly not of this earth, a reincarnation
of a woman who murdered her lover two centuries and a half ago,
that such a creature should have the power of attracting about her
(being altogether superior to earthly lovers) the man who loved her
in that previous existence, whose love for her was his death—what is
there astonishing in that? Mrs. Oke herself, I feel quite persuaded,
believed or half believed it; indeed she very seriously admitted the
possibility thereof, one day that I made the suggestion half in jest.
At all events, it rather pleased me to think so; it fitted in so well
with the woman’s whole personality; it explained those hours and hours
spent all alone in the yellow room, where the very air, with its scent
of heady flowers and old perfumed stuffs, seemed redolent of ghosts.
It explained that strange smile which was not for any of us, and yet
was not merely for herself—that strange, far-off look in the wide pale
eyes. I liked the idea, and I liked to tease, or rather to delight her
with it. How should I know that the wretched husband would take such
matters seriously?

He became day by day more silent and perplexed-looking; and, as
a result, worked harder, and probably with less effect, at his
land-improving schemes and political canvassing. It seemed to me that
he was perpetually listening, watching, waiting for something to
happen: a word spoken suddenly, the sharp opening of a door, would
make him start, turn crimson, and almost tremble; the mention of
Lovelock brought a helpless look, half a convulsion, like that of a
man overcome by great heat, into his face. And his wife, so far from
taking any interest in his altered looks, went on irritating him more
and more. Every time that the poor fellow gave one of those starts of
his, or turned crimson at the sudden sound of a footstep, Mrs. Oke
would ask him, with her contemptuous indifference, whether he had seen
Lovelock. I soon began to perceive that my host was getting perfectly
ill. He would sit at meals never saying a word, with his eyes fixed
scrutinisingly on his wife, as if vainly trying to solve some dreadful
mystery; while his wife, ethereal, exquisite, went on talking in her
listless way about the masque, about Lovelock, always about Lovelock.
During our walks and rides, which we continued pretty regularly, he
would start whenever in the roads or lanes surrounding Okehurst, or
in its grounds, we perceived a figure in the distance. I have seen
him tremble at what, on nearer approach, I could scarcely restrain my
laughter on discovering to be some well-known farmer or neighbour or
servant. Once, as we were returning home at dusk, he suddenly caught my
arm and pointed across the oak-dotted pastures in the direction of the
garden, then started off almost at a run, with his dog behind him, as
if in pursuit of some intruder.

“Who was it?” I asked. And Mr. Oke merely shook his head mournfully.
Sometimes in the early autumn twilights, when the white mists rose from
the park-land, and the rooks formed long black lines on the palings,
I almost fancied I saw him start at the very trees and bushes, the
outlines of the distant oast-houses, with their conical roofs and
projecting vanes, like gibing fingers in the half light.

“Your husband is ill,” I once ventured to remark to Mrs. Oke, as she
sat for the hundred-and-thirtieth of my preparatory sketches (I somehow
could never get beyond preparatory sketches with her). She raised her
beautiful, wide, pale eyes, making as she did so that exquisite curve
of shoulders and neck and delicate pale head that I so vainly longed to
reproduce.

“I don’t see it,” she answered quietly. “If he is, why doesn’t he go up
to town and see the doctor? It’s merely one of his glum fits.”

“You should not tease him about Lovelock,” I added, very seriously. “He
will get to believe in him.”

“Why not? If he sees him, why he sees him. He would not be the only
person that has done so”; and she smiled faintly and half perversely,
as her eyes sought that usual distant indefinable something.

But Oke got worse. He was growing perfectly unstrung, like a hysterical
woman. One evening that we were sitting alone in the smoking-room, he
began unexpectedly a rambling discourse about his wife; how he had
first known her when they were children, and they had gone to the same
dancing-school near Portland Place; how her mother, his aunt-in-law,
had brought her for Christmas to Okehurst while he was on his holidays;
how finally, thirteen years ago, when he was twenty-three and she was
eighteen, they had been married; how terribly he had suffered when they
had been disappointed of their baby, and she had nearly died of the
illness.

“I did not mind about the child, you know,” he said in an excited
voice; “although there will be an end of us now, and Okehurst will
go to the Curtises. I minded only about Alice.” It was next to
inconceivable that this poor excited creature, speaking almost with
tears in his voice and in his eyes, was the quiet, well-got-up,
irreproachable young ex-Guardsman who had walked into my studio a
couple of months before.

Oke was silent for a moment, looking fixedly at the rug at his feet,
when he suddenly burst out in a scarce audible voice—

“If you knew how I cared for Alice—how I still care for her. I could
kiss the ground she walks upon. I would give anything—my life any
day—if only she would look for two minutes as if she liked me a
little—as if she didn’t utterly despise me”; and the poor fellow burst
into a hysterical laugh, which was almost a sob. Then he suddenly began
to laugh outright, exclaiming, with a sort of vulgarity of intonation
which was extremely foreign to him—

“Damn it, old fellow, this is a queer world we live in!” and rang for
more brandy and soda, which he was beginning, I noticed, to take pretty
freely now, although he had been almost a blue-ribbon man—as much so as
is possible for a hospitable country gentleman—when I first arrived.

                                   9

It became clear to me now that, incredible as it might seem, the thing
that ailed William Oke was jealousy. He was simply madly in love with
his wife, and madly jealous of her. Jealous—but of whom? He himself
would probably have been quite unable to say. In the first place—to
clear off any possible suspicion—certainly not of me. Besides the fact
that Mrs. Oke took only just a very little more interest in me than in
the butler or the upper-housemaid, I think that Oke himself was the
sort of man whose imagination would recoil from realising any definite
object of jealousy, even though jealously might be killing him inch by
inch. It remained a vague, permeating, continuous feeling—the feeling
that he loved her, and she did not care a jackstraw about him, and
that everything with which she came into contact was receiving some of
that notice which was refused to him—every person, or thing, or tree,
or stone: it was the recognition of that strange far-off look in Mrs.
Oke’s eyes, of that strange absent smile on Mrs. Oke’s lips—eyes and
lips that had no look and no smile for him.

Gradually his nervousness, his watchfulness, suspiciousness, tendency
to start, took a definite shape. Mr. Oke was for ever alluding to
steps or voices he had heard, to figures he had seen sneaking round
the house. The sudden bark of one of the dogs would make him jump up.
He cleaned and loaded very carefully all the guns and revolvers in his
study, and even some of the old fowling-pieces and holster-pistols
in the hall. The servants and tenants thought that Oke of Okehurst
had been seized with a terror of tramps and burglars. Mrs. Oke smiled
contemptuously at all these doings.

“My dear William,” she said one day, “the persons who worry you have
just as good a right to walk up and down the passages and staircase,
and to hang about the house, as you or I. They were there, in all
probability, long before either of us was born, and are greatly amused
by your preposterous notions of privacy.”

Mr. Oke laughed angrily. “I suppose you will tell me it is
Lovelock—your eternal Lovelock—whose steps I hear on the gravel every
night. I suppose he has as good a right to be here as you or I.” And he
strode out of the room.

“Lovelock—Lovelock! Why will she always go on like that about
Lovelock?” Mr. Oke asked me that evening, suddenly staring me in the
face.

I merely laughed.

“It’s only because she has that play of his on the brain,” I answered;
“and because she thinks you superstitious, and likes to tease you.”

“I don’t understand,” sighed Oke.

How could he? And if I had tried to make him do so, he would merely
have thought I was insulting his wife, and have perhaps kicked me out
of the room. So I made no attempt to explain psychological problems
to him, and he asked me no more questions until once—But I must first
mention a curious incident that happened.

The incident was simply this. Returning one afternoon from our usual
walk, Mr. Oke suddenly asked the servant whether any one had come. The
answer was in the negative; but Oke did not seem satisfied. We had
hardly sat down to dinner when he turned to his wife and asked, in a
strange voice which I scarcely recognised as his own, who had called
that afternoon.

“No one,” answered Mrs. Oke; “at least to the best of my knowledge.”

William Oke looked at her fixedly.

“No one?” he repeated, in a scrutinising tone; “no one, Alice?”

Mrs. Oke shook her head. “No one,” she replied.

There was a pause.

“Who was it, then, that was walking with you near the pond, about five
o’clock?” asked Oke slowly.

His wife lifted her eyes straight to his and answered contemptuously—

“No one was walking with me near the pond, at five o’clock or any other
hour.”

Mr. Oke turned purple, and made a curious hoarse noise like a man
choking.

“I—I thought I saw you walking with a man this afternoon, Alice,” he
brought out with an effort; adding, for the sake of appearances before
me, “I thought it might have been the curate come with that report for
me.”

Mrs. Oke smiled.

“I can only repeat that no living creature has been near me this
afternoon,” she said slowly. “If you saw any one with me, it must have
been Lovelock, for there certainly was no one else.”

And she gave a little sigh, like a person trying to reproduce in her
mind some delightful but too evanescent impression.

I looked at my host; from crimson his face had turned perfectly livid,
and he breathed as if some one were squeezing his windpipe.

No more was said about the matter. I vaguely felt that a great danger
was threatening. To Oke or to Mrs. Oke? I could not tell which; but I
was aware of an imperious inner call to avert some dreadful evil, to
exert myself, to explain, to interpose. I determined to speak to Oke
the following day, for I trusted him to give me a quiet hearing, and I
did not trust Mrs. Oke. That woman would slip through my fingers like a
snake if I attempted to grasp her elusive character.

I asked Oke whether he would take a walk with me the next afternoon,
and he accepted to do so with a curious eagerness. We started about
three o’clock. It was a stormy, chilly afternoon, with great balls of
white clouds rolling rapidly in the cold blue sky, and occasional lurid
gleams of sunlight, broad and yellow, which made the black ridge of the
storm, gathered on the horizon, look blue-black like ink.

We walked quickly across the sere and sodden grass of the park, and
on to the highroad that led over the low hills, I don’t know why, in
the direction of Cotes Common. Both of us were silent, for both of us
had something to say, and did not know how to begin. For my part, I
recognised the impossibility of starting the subject: an uncalled-for
interference from me would merely indispose Mr. Oke, and make him
doubly dense of comprehension. So, if Oke had something to say, which
he evidently had, it was better to wait for him.

Oke, however, broke the silence only by pointing out to me the
condition of the hops, as we passed one of his many hop-gardens. “It
will be a poor year,” he said, stopping short and looking intently
before him—“no hops at all. No hops this autumn.”

I looked at him. It was clear that he had no notion what he was saying.
The dark-green bines were covered with fruit; and only yesterday he
himself had informed me that he had not seen such a profusion of hops
for many years.

I did not answer, and we walked on. A cart met us in a dip of the road,
and the carter touched his hat and greeted Mr. Oke. But Oke took no
heed; he did not seem to be aware of the man’s presence.

The clouds were collecting all round; black domes, among which coursed
the round grey masses of fleecy stuff.

“I think we shall be caught in a tremendous storm,” I said; “hadn’t we
better be turning?” He nodded, and turned sharp round.

The sunlight lay in yellow patches under the oaks of the pasture-lands,
and burnished the green hedges. The air was heavy and yet cold, and
everything seemed preparing for a great storm. The rooks whirled
in black clouds round the trees and the conical red caps of the
oast-houses which give that country the look of being studded with
turreted castles; then they descended—a black line—upon the fields,
with what seemed an unearthly loudness of caw. And all round there
arose a shrill quavering bleating of lambs and calling of sheep, while
the wind began to catch the topmost branches of the trees.

Suddenly Mr. Oke broke the silence.

“I don’t know you very well,” he began hurriedly, and without turning
his face towards me; “but I think you are honest, and you have seen
a good deal of the world—much more than I. I want you to tell me—but
truly, please—what do you think a man should do if”—and he stopped for
some minutes.

“Imagine,” he went on quickly, “that a man cares a great deal—a very
great deal for his wife, and that he finds out that she—well, that—that
she is deceiving him. No—don’t misunderstand me; I mean—that she is
constantly surrounded by some one else and will not admit it—some one
whom she hides away. Do you understand? Perhaps she does not know all
the risk she is running, you know, but she will not draw back—she will
not avow it to her husband”—

“My dear Oke,” I interrupted, attempting to take the matter lightly,
“these are questions that can’t be solved in the abstract, or by people
to whom the thing has not happened. And it certainly has not happened
to you or me.”

Oke took no notice of my interruption. “You see,” he went on, “the man
doesn’t expect his wife to care much about him. It’s not that; he isn’t
merely jealous, you know. But he feels that she is on the brink of
dishonouring herself—because I don’t think a woman can really dishonour
her husband; dishonour is in our own hands, and depends only on our own
acts. He ought to save her, do you see? He must, must save her, in one
way or another. But if she will not listen to him, what can he do? Must
he seek out the other one, and try and get him out of the way? You see
it’s all the fault of the other—not hers, not hers. If only she would
trust in her husband, she would be safe. But that other one won’t let
her.”

“Look here, Oke,” I said boldly, but feeling rather frightened; “I know
quite well what you are talking about. And I see you don’t understand
the matter in the very least. I do. I have watched you and watched Mrs.
Oke these six weeks, and I see what is the matter. Will you listen to
me?”

And taking his arm, I tried to explain to him my view of the
situation—that his wife was merely eccentric, and a little theatrical
and imaginative, and that she took a pleasure in teasing him. That he,
on the other hand, was letting himself get into a morbid state; that he
was ill, and ought to see a good doctor. I even offered to take him to
town with me.

I poured out volumes of psychological explanations. I dissected Mrs.
Oke’s character twenty times over, and tried to show him that there
was absolutely nothing at the bottom of his suspicions beyond an
imaginative _pose_ and a garden-play on the brain. I adduced twenty
instances, mostly invented for the nonce, of ladies of my acquaintance
who had suffered from similar fads. I pointed out to him that his wife
ought to have an outlet for her imaginative and theatrical over-energy.
I advised him to take her to London and plunge her into some set where
every one should be more or less in a similar condition. I laughed at
the notion of there being any hidden individual about the house. I
explained to Oke that he was suffering from delusions, and called upon
so conscientious and religious a man to take every step to rid himself
of them, adding innumerable examples of people who had cured themselves
of seeing visions and of brooding over morbid fancies. I struggled and
wrestled, like Jacob with the angel, and I really hoped I had made some
impression. At first, indeed, I felt that not one of my words went into
the man’s brain—that, though silent, he was not listening. It seemed
almost hopeless to present my views in such a light that he could grasp
them. I felt as if I were expounding and arguing at a rock. But when
I got on to the tack of his duty towards his wife and himself, and
appealed to his moral and religious notions, I felt that I was making
an impression.

“I daresay you are right,” he said, taking my hand as we came in sight
of the red gables of Okehurst, and speaking in a weak, tired, humble
voice. “I don’t understand you quite, but I am sure what you say is
true. I daresay it is all that I’m seedy. I feel sometimes as if I were
mad, and just fit to be locked up. But don’t think I don’t struggle
against it. I do, I do continually, only sometimes it seems too strong
for me. I pray God night and morning to give me the strength to
overcome my suspicions, or to remove these dreadful thoughts from me.
God knows, I know what a wretched creature I am, and how unfit to take
care of that poor girl.”

And Oke again pressed my hand. As we entered the garden, he turned to
me once more.

“I am very, very grateful to you,” he said, “and, indeed, I will do my
best to try and be stronger. If only,” he added, with a sigh, “if only
Alice would give me a moment’s breathing-time, and not go on day after
day mocking me with her Lovelock.”

                                  10

I had begun Mrs. Oke’s portrait, and she was giving me a sitting.
She was unusually quiet that morning; but, it seemed to me, with the
quietness of a woman who is expecting something, and she gave me the
impression of being extremely happy. She had been reading, at my
suggestion, the “Vita Nuova,” which she did not know before, and the
conversation came to roll upon that, and upon the question whether love
so abstract and so enduring was a possibility. Such a discussion, which
might have savoured of flirtation in the case of almost any other young
and beautiful woman, became in the case of Mrs. Oke something quite
different; it seemed distant, intangible, not of this earth, like her
smile and the look in her eyes.

“Such love as that,” she said, looking into the far distance of the
oak-dotted park-land, “is very rare, but it can exist. It becomes a
person’s whole existence, his whole soul; and it can survive the death,
not merely of the beloved, but of the lover. It is unextinguishable,
and goes on in the spiritual world until it meet a reincarnation of
the beloved; and when this happens, it jets out and draws to it all
that may remain of that lover’s soul, and takes shape and surrounds the
beloved one once more.”

Mrs. Oke was speaking slowly, almost to herself, and I had never, I
think, seen her look so strange and so beautiful, the stiff white dress
bringing out but the more the exotic exquisiteness and incorporealness
of her person.

I did not know what to answer, so I said half in jest—

“I fear you have been reading too much Buddhist literature, Mrs. Oke.
There is something dreadfully esoteric in all you say.”

She smiled contemptuously.

“I know people can’t understand such matters,” she replied, and was
silent for some time. But, through her quietness and silence, I felt,
as it were, the throb of a strange excitement in this woman, almost as
if I had been holding her pulse.

Still, I was in hopes that things might be beginning to go better in
consequence of my interference. Mrs. Oke had scarcely once alluded to
Lovelock in the last two or three days; and Oke had been much more
cheerful and natural since our conversation. He no longer seemed
so worried; and once or twice I had caught in him a look of great
gentleness and loving-kindness, almost of pity, as towards some young
and very frail thing, as he sat opposite his wife.

But the end had come. After that sitting Mrs. Oke had complained
of fatigue and retired to her room, and Oke had driven off on some
business to the nearest town. I felt all alone in the big house, and
after having worked a little at a sketch I was making in the park, I
amused myself rambling about the house.

It was a warm, enervating, autumn afternoon: the kind of weather that
brings the perfume out of everything, the damp ground and fallen
leaves, the flowers in the jars, the old woodwork and stuffs; that
seems to bring on to the surface of one’s consciousness all manner of
vague recollections and expectations, a something half pleasurable,
half painful, that makes it impossible to do or to think. I was the
prey of this particular, not at all unpleasurable, restlessness. I
wandered up and down the corridors, stopping to look at the pictures,
which I knew already in every detail, to follow the pattern of the
carvings and old stuffs, to stare at the autumn flowers, arranged in
magnificent masses of colour in the big china bowls and jars. I took up
one book after another and threw it aside; then I sat down to the piano
and began to play irrelevant fragments. I felt quite alone, although
I had heard the grind of the wheels on the gravel, which meant that
my host had returned. I was lazily turning over a book of verses—I
remember it perfectly well, it was Morris’s “Love is Enough”—in a
corner of the drawing-room, when the door suddenly opened and William
Oke showed himself. He did not enter, but beckoned to me to come out to
him. There was something in his face that made me start up and follow
him at once. He was extremely quiet, even stiff, not a muscle of his
face moving, but very pale.

“I have something to show you,” he said, leading me through the vaulted
hall, hung round with ancestral pictures, into the gravelled space that
looked like a filled-up moat, where stood the big blasted oak, with its
twisted, pointing branches. I followed him on to the lawn, or rather
the piece of park-land that ran up to the house. We walked quickly, he
in front, without exchanging a word. Suddenly he stopped, just where
there jutted out the bow-window of the yellow drawing-room, and I felt
Oke’s hand tight upon my arm.

“I have brought you here to see something,” he whispered hoarsely; and
he led me to the window.

I looked in. The room, compared with the out door, was rather dark; but
against the yellow wall I saw Mrs. Oke sitting alone on a couch in her
white dress, her head slightly thrown back, a large red rose in her
hand.

“Do you believe now?” whispered Oke’s voice hot at my ear. “Do you
believe now? Was it all my fancy? But I will have him this time. I have
locked the door inside, and, by God! he shan’t escape.”

The words were not out of Oke’s mouth. I felt myself struggling with
him silently outside that window. But he broke loose, pulled open the
window, and leapt into the room, and I after him. As I crossed the
threshold, something flashed in my eyes; there was a loud report, a
sharp cry, and the thud of a body on the ground.

Oke was standing in the middle of the room, with a faint smoke about
him; and at his feet, sunk down from the sofa, with her blond head
resting on its seat, lay Mrs. Oke, a pool of red forming in her white
dress. Her mouth was convulsed, as if in that automatic shriek, but her
wide-open white eyes seemed to smile vaguely and distantly.

I know nothing of time. It all seemed to be one second, but a second
that lasted hours. Oke stared, then turned round and laughed.

“The damned rascal has given me the slip again!” he cried; and quickly
unlocking the door, rushed out of the house with dreadful cries.

That is the end of the story. Oke tried to shoot himself that evening,
but merely fractured his jaw, and died a few days later, raving. There
were all sorts of legal inquiries, through which I went as through a
dream; and whence it resulted that Mr. Oke had killed his wife in a fit
of momentary madness. That was the end of Alice Oke. By the way, her
maid brought me a locket which was found round her neck, all stained
with blood. It contained some very dark auburn hair, not at all the
colour of William Oke’s. I am quite sure it was Lovelock’s.

                           _A Wicked Voice_

                               To M.W.,
          IN REMEMBRANCE OF THE LAST SONG AT PALAZZO BARBARO,
                       _Chi ha inteso, intenda._

They have been congratulating me again today upon being the only
composer of our days—of these days of deafening orchestral effects and
poetical quackery—who has despised the new-fangled nonsense of Wagner,
and returned boldly to the traditions of Handel and Gluck and the
divine Mozart, to the supremacy of melody and the respect of the human
voice.

O cursed human voice, violin of flesh and blood, fashioned with the
subtle tools, the cunning hands, of Satan! O execrable art of singing,
have you not wrought mischief enough in the past, degrading so much
noble genius, corrupting the purity of Mozart, reducing Handel to a
writer of high-class singing-exercises, and defrauding the world of the
only inspiration worthy of Sophocles and Euripides, the poetry of the
great poet Gluck? Is it not enough to have dishonored a whole century
in idolatry of that wicked and contemptible wretch the singer, without
persecuting an obscure young composer of our days, whose only wealth is
his love of nobility in art, and perhaps some few grains of genius?

And then they compliment me upon the perfection with which I imitate
the style of the great dead masters; or ask me very seriously whether,
even if I could gain over the modern public to this bygone style of
music, I could hope to find singers to perform it. Sometimes, when
people talk as they have been talking today, and laugh when I declare
myself a follower of Wagner, I burst into a paroxysm of unintelligible,
childish rage, and exclaim, “We shall see that some day!”

Yes; some day we shall see! For, after all, may I not recover from
this strangest of maladies? It is still possible that the day may come
when all these things shall seem but an incredible nightmare; the day
when _Ogier the Dane_ shall be completed, and men shall know whether
I am a follower of the great master of the Future or the miserable
singing-masters of the Past. I am but half-bewitched, since I am
conscious of the spell that binds me. My old nurse, far off in Norway,
used to tell me that were-wolves are ordinary men and women half their
days, and that if, during that period, they become aware of their
horrid transformation they may find the means to forestall it. May
this not be the case with me? My reason, after all, is free, although
my artistic inspiration be enslaved; and I can despise and loathe the
music I am forced to compose, and the execrable power that forces me.

Nay, is it not because I have studied with the doggedness of hatred
this corrupt and corrupting music of the Past, seeking for every little
peculiarity of style and every biographical trifle merely to display
its vileness, is it not for this presumptuous courage that I have been
overtaken by such mysterious, incredible vengeance?

And meanwhile, my only relief consists in going over and over again in
my mind the tale of my miseries. This time I will write it, writing
only to tear up, to throw the manuscript unread into the fire. And yet,
who knows? As the last charred pages shall crackle and slowly sink into
the red embers, perhaps the spell may be broken, and I may possess once
more my long-lost liberty, my vanished genius.

It was a breathless evening under the full moon, that implacable
full moon beneath which, even more than beneath the dreamy splendor
of noon-tide, Venice seemed to swelter in the midst of the waters,
exhaling, like some great lily, mysterious influences, which make
the brain swim and the heart faint—a moral malaria, distilled, as I
thought, from those languishing melodies, those cooing vocalizations
which I had found in the musty music-books of a century ago. I see that
moonlight evening as if it were present. I see my fellow-lodgers of
that little artists’ boarding-house. The table on which they lean after
supper is strewn with bits of bread, with napkins rolled in tapestry
rollers, spots of wine here and there, and at regular intervals
chipped pepper-pots, stands of toothpicks, and heaps of those huge
hard peaches which nature imitates from the marble-shops of Pisa. The
whole _pension_-full is assembled, and examining stupidly the engraving
which the American etcher has just brought for me, knowing me to be mad
about eighteenth century music and musicians, and having noticed, as he
turned over the heaps of penny prints in the square of San Polo, that
the portrait is that of a singer of those days.

Singer, thing of evil, stupid and wicked slave of the voice, of that
instrument which was not invented by the human intellect, but begotten
of the body, and which, instead of moving the soul, merely stirs up
the dregs of our nature! For what is the voice but the Beast calling,
awakening that other Beast sleeping in the depths of mankind, the Beast
which all great art has ever sought to chain up, as the archangel
chains up, in old pictures, the demon with his woman’s face? How could
the creature attached to this voice, its owner and its victim, the
singer, the great, the real singer who once ruled over every heart, be
otherwise than wicked and contemptible? But let me try and get on with
my story.

I can see all my fellow-boarders, leaning on the table, contemplating
the print, this effeminate beau, his hair curled into _ailes de
pigeon_, his sword passed through his embroidered pocket, seated under
a triumphal arch somewhere among the clouds, surrounded by puffy
Cupids and crowned with laurels by a bouncing goddess of fame. I hear
again all the insipid exclamations, the insipid questions about this
singer:—“When did he live? Was he very famous? Are you sure, Magnus,
that this is really a portrait,” &c. &c. And I hear my own voice, as if
in the far distance, giving them all sorts of information, biographical
and critical, out of a battered little volume called _The Theatre of
Musical Glory; or, Opinions upon the most Famous Chapel-masters and
Virtuosi of this Century_, by Father Prosdocimo Sabatelli, Barnalite,
Professor of Eloquence at the College of Modena, and Member of the
Arcadian Academy, under the pastoral name of Evander Lilybaean, Venice,
1785, with the approbation of the Superiors. I tell them all how this
singer, this Balthasar Cesari, was nick-named Zaffirino because of a
sapphire engraved with cabalistic signs presented to him one evening by
a masked stranger, in whom wise folk recognized that great cultivator
of the human voice, the devil; how much more wonderful had been this
Zaffirino’s vocal gifts than those of any singer of ancient or modern
times; how his brief life had been but a series of triumphs, petted by
the greatest kings, sung by the most famous poets, and finally, adds
Father Prosdocimo, “courted (if the grave Muse of history may incline
her ear to the gossip of gallantry) by the most charming nymphs, even
of the very highest quality.”

My friends glance once more at the engraving; more insipid remarks
are made; I am requested—especially by the American young ladies—to
play or sing one of this Zaffirino’s favorite songs—“For of course you
know them, dear Maestro Magnus, you who have such a passion for all
old music. Do be good, and sit down to the piano.” I refuse, rudely
enough, rolling the print in my fingers. How fearfully this cursed
heat, these cursed moonlight nights, must have unstrung me! This Venice
would certainly kill me in the long-run! Why, the sight of this idiotic
engraving, the mere name of that coxcomb of a singer, have made my
heart beat and my limbs turn to water like a love-sick hobbledehoy.

After my gruff refusal, the company begins to disperse; they prepare
to go out, some to have a row on the lagoon, others to saunter before
the _cafés_ at St. Mark’s; family discussions arise, gruntings of
fathers, murmurs of mothers, peals of laughing from young girls and
young men. And the moon, pouring in by the wide-open windows, turns
this old palace ballroom, nowadays an inn dining-room, into a lagoon,
scintillating, undulating like the other lagoon, the real one, which
stretches out yonder furrowed by invisible gondolas betrayed by the red
prow-lights. At last the whole lot of them are on the move. I shall be
able to get some quiet in my room, and to work a little at my opera of
_Ogier the Dane_. But no! Conversation revives, and, of all things,
about that singer, that Zaffirino, whose absurd portrait I am crunching
in my fingers.

The principal speaker is Count Alvise, an old Venetian with dyed
whiskers, a great check tie fastened with two pins and a chain; a
threadbare patrician who is dying to secure for his lanky son that
pretty American girl, whose mother is intoxicated by all his mooning
anecdotes about the past glories of Venice in general, and of his
illustrious family in particular. Why, in Heaven’s name, must he pitch
upon Zaffirino for his mooning, this old duffer of a patrician?

“Zaffirino,—ah yes, to be sure! Balthasar Cesari, called Zaffirino,”
snuffles the voice of Count Alvise, who always repeats the last word
of every sentence at least three times. “Yes, Zaffirino, to be sure! A
famous singer of the days of my forefathers; yes, of my forefathers,
dear lady!” Then a lot of rubbish about the former greatness of Venice,
the glories of old music, the former Conservatoires, all mixed up with
anecdotes of Rossini and Donizetti, whom he pretends to have known
intimately. Finally, a story, of course containing plenty about his
illustrious family:—“My great grand-aunt, the Procuratessa Vendramin,
from whom we have inherited our estate of Mistrà, on the Brenta”—a
hopelessly muddled story, apparently, fully of digressions, but of
which that singer Zaffirino is the hero. The narrative, little by
little, becomes more intelligible, or perhaps it is I who am giving it
more attention.

“It seems,” says the Count, “that there was one of his songs
in particular which was called the ‘Husbands’ Air’—_L’Aria dei
Marit_—because they didn’t enjoy it quite as much as their
better-halves.... My grand-aunt, Pisana Renier, married to the
Procuratore Vendramin, was a patrician of the old school, of the
style that was getting rare a hundred years ago. Her virtue and her
pride rendered her unapproachable. Zaffirino, on his part, was in
the habit of boasting that no woman had ever been able to resist his
singing, which, it appears, had its foundation in fact—the ideal
changes, my dear lady, the ideal changes a good deal from one century
to another!—and that his first song could make any woman turn pale and
lower her eyes, the second make her madly in love, while the third song
could kill her off on the spot, kill her for love, there under his very
eyes, if he only felt inclined. My grandaunt Vendramin laughed when
this story was told her, refused to go to hear this insolent dog, and
added that it might be quite possible by the aid of spells and infernal
pacts to kill a _gentildonna_, but as to making her fall in love with
a lackey—never! This answer was naturally reported to Zaffirino, who
piqued himself upon always getting the better of any one who was
wanting in deference to his voice. Like the ancient Romans, _parcere
subjectis et debellare superbos_. You American ladies, who are so
learned, will appreciate this little quotation from the divine Virgil.
While seeming to avoid the Procuratessa Vendramin, Zaffirino took the
opportunity, one evening at a large assembly, to sing in her presence.
He sang and sang and sang until the poor grand-aunt Pisana fell ill
for love. The most skilful physicians were kept unable to explain
the mysterious malady which was visibly killing the poor young lady;
and the Procuratore Vendramin applied in vain to the most venerated
Madonnas, and vainly promised an altar of silver, with massive gold
candlesticks, to Saints Cosmas and Damian, patrons of the art of
healing. At last the brother-in-law of the Procuratessa, Monsignor
Almorò Vendramin, Patriarch of Aquileia, a prelate famous for the
sanctity of his life, obtained in a vision of Saint Justina, for whom
he entertained a particular devotion, the information that the only
thing which could benefit the strange illness of his sister-in-law was
the voice of Zaffirino. Take notice that my poor grand-aunt had never
condescended to such a revelation.

“The Procuratore was enchanted at this happy solution; and his lordship
the Patriarch went to seek Zaffirino in person, and carried him in his
own coach to the Villa of Mistrà, where the Procuratessa was residing.

“On being told what was about to happen, my poor grand-aunt went into
fits of rage, which were succeeded immediately by equally violent
fits of joy. However, she never forgot what was due to her great
position. Although sick almost unto death, she had herself arrayed
with the greatest pomp, caused her face to be painted, and put on
all her diamonds: it would seem as if she were anxious to affirm her
full dignity before this singer. Accordingly she received Zaffirino
reclining on a sofa which had been placed in the great ballroom of the
Villa of Mistrà, and beneath the princely canopy; for the Vendramins,
who had intermarried with the house of Mantua, possessed imperial
fiefs and were princes of the Holy Roman Empire. Zaffirino saluted her
with the most profound respect, but not a word passed between them.
Only, the singer inquired from the Procuratore whether the illustrious
lady had received the Sacraments of the Church. Being told that the
Procuratessa had herself asked to be given extreme unction from the
hands of her brother-in-law, he declared his readiness to obey the
orders of His Excellency, and sat down at once to the harpsichord.

“Never had he sung so divinely. At the end of the first song the
Procuratessa Vendramin had already revived most extraordinarily; by
the end of the second she appeared entirely cured and beaming with
beauty and happiness; but at the third air—the _Aria dei Mariti_, no
doubt—she began to change frightfully; she gave a dreadful cry, and
fell into the convulsions of death. In a quarter of an hour she was
dead! Zaffirino did not wait to see her die. Having finished his song,
he withdrew instantly, took post-horses, and traveled day and night
as far as Munich. People remarked that he had presented himself at
Mistrà dressed in mourning, although he had mentioned no death among
his relatives; also that he had prepared everything for his departure,
as if fearing the wrath of so powerful a family. Then there was also
the extraordinary question he had asked before beginning to sing, about
the Procuratessa having confessed and received extreme unction.... No,
thanks, my dear lady, no cigarettes for me. But if it does not distress
you or your charming daughter, may I humbly beg permission to smoke a
cigar?”

And Count Alvise, enchanted with his talent for narrative, and sure
of having secured for his son the heart and the dollars of his fair
audience, proceeds to light a candle, and at the candle one of those
long black Italian cigars which require preliminary disinfection before
smoking.

... If this state of things goes on I shall just have to ask the doctor
for a bottle; this ridiculous beating of my heart and disgusting cold
perspiration have increased steadily during Count Alvise’s narrative.
To keep myself in countenance among the various idiotic commentaries on
this cock-and-bull story of a vocal coxcomb and a vaporing great lady,
I begin to unroll the engraving, and to examine stupidly the portrait
of Zaffirino, once so renowned, now so forgotten. A ridiculous ass,
this singer, under his triumphal arch, with his stuffed Cupids and the
great fat winged kitchenmaid crowning him with laurels. How flat and
vapid and vulgar it is, to be sure, all this odious eighteenth century!

But he, personally, is not so utterly vapid as I had thought. That
effeminate, fat face of his is almost beautiful, with an odd smile,
brazen and cruel. I have seen faces like this, if not in real life,
at least in my boyish romantic dreams, when I read Swinburne and
Baudelaire, the faces of wicked, vindictive women. Oh yes! he is
decidedly a beautiful creature, this Zaffirino, and his voice must have
had the same sort of beauty and the same expression of wickedness....

“Come on, Magnus,” sound the voices of my fellow-boarders, “be a good
fellow and sing us one of the old chap’s songs; or at least something
or other of that day, and we’ll make believe it was the air with which
he killed that poor lady.”

“Oh yes! the _Aria dei Mariti_, the ‘Husbands’ Air,’” mumbles old
Alvise, between the puffs at his impossible black cigar. “My poor
grand-aunt, Pisana Vendramin; he went and killed her with those songs
of his, with that _Aria dei Mariti_.”

I feel senseless rage overcoming me. Is it that horrible palpitation
(by the way, there is a Norwegian doctor, my fellow-countryman, at
Venice just now) which is sending the blood to my brain and making me
mad? The people round the piano, the furniture, everything together
seems to get mixed and to turn into moving blobs of color. I set to
singing; the only thing which remains distinct before my eyes being
the portrait of Zaffirino, on the edge of that boarding-house piano;
the sensual, effeminate face, with its wicked, cynical smile, keeps
appearing and disappearing as the print wavers about in the draught
that makes the candles smoke and gutter. And I set to singing madly,
singing I don’t know what. Yes; I begin to identify it: ’tis the
_Biondina in Gondoleta_, the only song of the eighteenth century which
is still remembered by the Venetian people. I sing it, mimicking
every old-school grace; shakes, cadences, languishingly swelled
and diminished notes, and adding all manner of buffooneries, until
the audience, recovering from its surprise, begins to shake with
laughing; until I begin to laugh myself, madly, frantically, between
the phrases of the melody, my voice finally smothered in this dull,
brutal laughter.... And then, to crown it all, I shake my fist at this
long-dead singer, looking at me with his wicked woman’s face, with his
mocking, fatuous smile.

“Ah! you would like to be revenged on me also!” I exclaim. “You would
like me to write you nice roulades and flourishes, another nice _Aria
dei Mariti_, my fine Zaffirino!”

That night I dreamed a very strange dream. Even in the big
half-furnished room the heat and closeness were stifling. The air
seemed laden with the scent of all manner of white flowers, faint
and heavy in their intolerable sweetness: tuberoses, gardenias, and
jasmines drooping I know not where in neglected vases. The moonlight
had transformed the marble floor around me into a shallow, shining,
pool. On account of the heat I had exchanged my bed for a big
old-fashioned sofa of light wood, painted with little nosegays and
sprigs, like an old silk; and I lay there, not attempting to sleep,
and letting my thoughts go vaguely to my opera of _Ogier the Dane_, of
which I had long finished writing the words, and for whose music I had
hoped to find some inspiration in this strange Venice, floating, as it
were, in the stagnant lagoon of the past. But Venice had merely put
all my ideas into hopeless confusion; it was as if there arose out of
its shallow waters a miasma of long-dead melodies, which sickened but
intoxicated my soul. I lay on my sofa watching that pool of whitish
light, which rose higher and higher, little trickles of light meeting
it here and there, wherever the moon’s rays struck upon some polished
surface; while huge shadows waved to and fro in the draught of the open
balcony.

I went over and over that old Norse story: how the Paladin, Ogier,
one of the knights of Charlemagne, was decoyed during his homeward
wanderings from the Holy Land by the arts of an enchantress, the same
who had once held in bondage the great Emperor Caesar and given him
King Oberon for a son; how Ogier had tarried in that island only one
day and one night, and yet, when he came home to his kingdom, he found
all changed, his friends dead, his family dethroned, and not a man who
knew his face; until at last, driven hither and thither like a beggar,
a poor minstrel had taken compassion of his sufferings and given him
all he could give—a song, the song of the prowess of a hero dead for
hundreds of years, the Paladin Ogier the Dane.

The story of Ogier ran into a dream, as vivid as my waking thoughts had
been vague. I was looking no longer at the pool of moonlight spreading
round my couch, with its trickles of light and looming, waving shadows,
but the frescoed walls of a great saloon. It was not, as I recognized
in a second, the dining-room of that Venetian palace now turned into
a boarding-house. It was a far larger room, a real ballroom, almost
circular in its octagon shape, with eight huge white doors surrounded
by stucco moldings, and, high on the vault of the ceiling, eight little
galleries or recesses like boxes at a theatre, intended no doubt
for musicians and spectators. The place was imperfectly lighted by
only one of the eight chandeliers, which revolved slowly, like huge
spiders, each on its long cord. But the light struck upon the gilt
stuccoes opposite me, and on a large expanse of fresco, the sacrifice
of Iphigenia, with Agamemnon and Achilles in Roman helmets, lappets,
and knee-breeches. It discovered also one of the oil panels let into
the moldings of the roof, a goddess in lemon and lilac draperies,
foreshortened over a great green peacock. Round the room, where the
light reached, I could make out big yellow satin sofas and heavy gilded
consoles; in the shadow of a corner was what looked like a piano, and
farther in the shade one of those big canopies which decorate the
anterooms of Roman palaces. I looked about me, wondering where I was: a
heavy, sweet smell, reminding me of the flavor of a peach, filled the
place.

Little by little I began to perceive sounds; little, sharp, metallic,
detached notes, like those of a mandolin; and there was united to them
a voice, very low and sweet, almost a whisper, which grew and grew and
grew, until the whole place was filled with that exquisite vibrating
note, of a strange, exotic, unique quality. The note went on, swelling
and swelling. Suddenly there was a horrible piercing shriek, and the
thud of a body on the floor, and all manner of smothered exclamations.
There, close by the canopy, a light suddenly appeared; and I could see,
among the dark figures moving to and fro in the room, a woman lying on
the ground, surrounded by other women. Her blond hair, tangled, full
of diamond-sparkles which cut through the half-darkness, was hanging
disheveled; the laces of her bodice had been cut, and her white breast
shone among the sheen of jeweled brocade; her face was bent forwards,
and a thin white arm trailed, like a broken limb, across the knees of
one of the women who were endeavoring to lift her. There was a sudden
splash of water against the floor, more confused exclamations, a
hoarse, broken moan, and a gurgling, dreadful sound.... I awoke with a
start and rushed to the window.

Outside, in the blue haze of the moon, the church and belfry of St.
George loomed blue and hazy, with the black hull and rigging, the red
lights, of a large steamer moored before them. From the lagoon rose a
damp sea-breeze. What was it all? Ah! I began to understand: that story
of old Count Alvise’s, the death of his grand-aunt, Pisana Vendramin.
Yes, it was about that I had been dreaming.

I returned to my room; I struck a light, and sat down to my
writing-table. Sleep had become impossible. I tried to work at my
opera. Once or twice I thought I had got hold of what I had looked for
so long.... But as soon as I tried to lay hold of my theme, there arose
in my mind the distant echo of that voice, of that long note swelled
slowly by insensible degrees, that long note whose tone was so strong
and so subtle.

There are in the life of an artist moments when, still unable to seize
his own inspiration, or even clearly to discern it, he becomes aware of
the approach of that long-invoked idea. A mingled joy and terror warn
him that before another day, another hour have passed, the inspiration
shall have crossed the threshold of his soul and flooded it with its
rapture. All day I had felt the need of isolation and quiet, and at
nightfall I went for a row on the most solitary part of the lagoon. All
things seemed to tell that I was going to meet my inspiration, and I
awaited its coming as a lover awaits his beloved.

I had stopped my gondola for a moment, and as I gently swayed to and
fro on the water, all paved with moonbeams, it seemed to me that I was
on the confines of an imaginary world. It lay close at hand, enveloped
in luminous, pale blue mist, through which the moon had cut a wide and
glistening path; out to sea, the little islands, like moored black
boats, only accentuated the solitude of this region of moonbeams and
wavelets; while the hum of the insects in orchards hard by merely added
to the impression of untroubled silence. On some such seas, I thought,
must the Paladin Ogier, have sailed when about to discover that during
that sleep at the enchantress’s knees centuries had elapsed and the
heroic world had set, and the kingdom of prose had come.

While my gondola rocked stationary on that sea of moonbeams, I pondered
over that twilight of the heroic world. In the soft rattle of the water
on the hull I seemed to hear the rattle of all that armor, of all those
swords swinging rusty on the walls, neglected by the degenerate sons
of the great champions of old. I had long been in search of a theme
which I called the theme of the “Prowess of Ogier;” it was to appear
from time to time in the course of my opera, to develop at last into
that song of the Minstrel, which reveals to the hero that he is one of
a long-dead world. And at this moment I seemed to feel the presence of
that theme. Yet an instant, and my mind would be overwhelmed by that
savage music, heroic, funereal.

Suddenly there came across the lagoon, cleaving, checkering, and
fretting the silence with a lacework of sound even as the moon was
fretting and cleaving the water, a ripple of music, a voice breaking
itself in a shower of little scales and cadences and trills.

I sank back upon my cushions. The vision of heroic days had vanished,
and before my closed eyes there seemed to dance multitudes of little
stars of light, chasing and interlacing like those sudden vocalizations.

“To shore! Quick!” I cried to the gondolier.

But the sounds had ceased; and there came from the orchards, with their
mulberry-trees glistening in the moonlight, and their black swaying
cypress-plumes, nothing save the confused hum, the monotonous chirp, of
the crickets.

I looked around me: on one side empty dunes, orchards, and meadows,
without house or steeple; on the other, the blue and misty sea, empty
to where distant islets were profiled black on the horizon.

A faintness overcame me, and I felt myself dissolve. For all of a
sudden a second ripple of voice swept over the lagoon, a shower of
little notes, which seemed to form a little mocking laugh.

Then again all was still. This silence lasted so long that I fell
once more to meditating on my opera. I lay in wait once more for the
half-caught theme. But no. It was not that theme for which I was
waiting and watching with baited breath. I realized my delusion when,
on rounding the point of the Giudecca, the murmur of a voice arose
from the midst of the waters, a thread of sound slender as a moonbeam,
scarce audible, but exquisite, which expanded slowly, insensibly,
taking volume and body, taking flesh almost and fire, an ineffable
quality, full, passionate, but veiled, as it were, in a subtle, downy
wrapper. The note grew stronger and stronger, and warmer and more
passionate, until it burst through that strange and charming veil, and
emerged beaming, to break itself in the luminous facets of a wonderful
shake, long, superb, triumphant.

There was a dead silence.

“Row to St. Mark’s!” I exclaimed. “Quick!”

The gondola glided through the long, glittering track of moonbeams, and
rent the great band of yellow, reflected light, mirroring the cupolas
of St. Mark’s, the lace-like pinnacles of the palace, and the slender
pink belfry, which rose from the lit-up water to the pale and bluish
evening sky.

In the larger of the two squares the military band was blaring
through the last spirals of a _crescendo_ of Rossini. The crowd was
dispersing in this great open-air ballroom, and the sounds arose which
invariably follow upon out-of-door music. A clatter of spoons and
glasses, a rustle and grating of frocks and of chairs, and the click
of scabbards on the pavement. I pushed my way among the fashionable
youths contemplating the ladies while sucking the knob of their sticks;
through the serried ranks of respectable families, marching arm in arm
with their white frocked young ladies close in front. I took a seat
before Florian’s, among the customers stretching themselves before
departing, and the waiters hurrying to and fro, clattering their empty
cups and trays. Two imitation Neapolitans were slipping their guitar
and violin under their arm, ready to leave the place.

“Stop!” I cried to them; “don’t go yet. Sing me something—sing _La
Camesella_ or _Funiculì, funiculà_—no matter what, provided you make
a row;” and as they screamed and scraped their utmost, I added, “But
can’t you sing louder, d—n you!—sing louder, do you understand?”

I felt the need of noise, of yells and false notes, of something vulgar
and hideous to drive away that ghost-voice which was haunting me.

Again and again I told myself that it had been some silly prank of
a romantic amateur, hidden in the gardens of the shore or gliding
unperceived on the lagoon; and that the sorcery of moonlight and
sea-mist had transfigured for my excited brain mere humdrum roulades
out of exercises of Bordogni or Crescentini.

But all the same I continued to be haunted by that voice. My work was
interrupted ever and anon by the attempt to catch its imaginary echo;
and the heroic harmonies of my Scandinavian legend were strangely
interwoven with voluptuous phrases and florid cadences in which I
seemed to hear again that same accursed voice.

To be haunted by singing-exercises! It seemed too ridiculous for a man
who professedly despised the art of singing. And still, I preferred to
believe in that childish amateur, amusing himself with warbling to the
moon.

One day, while making these reflections the hundredth time over, my
eyes chanced to light upon the portrait of Zaffirino, which my friend
had pinned against the wall. I pulled it down and tore it into half
a dozen shreds. Then, already ashamed of my folly, I watched the
torn pieces float down from the window, wafted hither and thither by
the sea-breeze. One scrap got caught in a yellow blind below me; the
others fell into the canal, and were speedily lost to sight in the dark
water. I was overcome with shame. My heart beat like bursting. What a
miserable, unnerved worm I had become in this cursed Venice, with its
languishing moonlights, its atmosphere as of some stuffy boudoir, long
unused, full of old stuffs and potpourri!

That night, however, things seemed to be going better. I was able to
settle down to my opera, and even to work at it. In the intervals my
thoughts returned, not without a certain pleasure, to those scattered
fragments of the torn engraving fluttering down to the water. I
was disturbed at my piano by the hoarse voices and the scraping of
violins which rose from one of those music-boats that station at
night under the hotels of the Grand Canal. The moon had set. Under
my balcony the water stretched black into the distance, its darkness
cut by the still darker outlines of the flotilla of gondolas in
attendance on the music-boat, where the faces of the singers, and the
guitars and violins, gleamed reddish under the unsteady light of the
Chinese-lanterns.

“_Jammo, jammo; jammo, jammo jà_,” sang the loud, hoarse voices; then
a tremendous scrape and twang, and the yelled-out burden, _“Funiculi,
funiculà; funiculi, funiculà; jammo, jammo, jammo, jammo, jammo jà_.”

Then came a few cries of “_Bis, Bis_!” from a neighboring hotel, a
brief clapping of hands, the sound of a handful of coppers rattling
into the boat, and the oar-stroke of some gondolier making ready to
turn away.

“Sing the _Camesella_,” ordered some voice with a foreign accent.

“No, no! _Santa Lucia_.”

“I want the _Camesella_.”

“No! _Santa Lucia_. Hi! sing _Santa Lucia_—d’you hear?”

The musicians, under their green and yellow and red lamps, held
a whispered consultation on the manner of conciliating these
contradictory demands. Then, after a minute’s hesitation, the violins
began the prelude of that once famous air, which has remained popular
in Venice—the words written, some hundred years ago, by the patrician
Gritti, the music by an unknown composer—_La Biondina in Gondoleta_.

That cursed eighteenth century! It seemed a malignant fatality that
made these brutes choose just this piece to interrupt me.

At last the long prelude came to an end; and above the cracked guitars
and squeaking fiddles there arose, not the expected nasal chorus, but a
single voice singing below its breath.

My arteries throbbed. How well I knew that voice! It was singing, as I
have said, below its breath, yet none the less it sufficed to fill all
that reach of the canal with its strange quality of tone, exquisite,
far-fetched.

They were long-drawn-out notes, of intense but peculiar sweetness,
a man’s voice which had much of a woman’s, but more even of a
chorister’s, but a chorister’s voice without its limpidity and
innocence; its youthfulness was veiled, muffled, as it were, in a sort
of downy vagueness, as if a passion of tears withheld.

There was a burst of applause, and the old palaces re-echoed with the
clapping. “Bravo, bravo! Thank you, thank you! Sing again—please, sing
again. Who can it be?”

And then a bumping of hulls, a splashing of oars, and the oaths of
gondoliers trying to push each other away, as the red prow-lamps of the
gondolas pressed round the gaily lit singing-boat.

But no one stirred on board. It was to none of them that this applause
was due. And while every one pressed on, and clapped and vociferated,
one little red prow-lamp dropped away from the fleet; for a moment a
single gondola stood forth black upon the black water, and then was
lost in the night.

For several days the mysterious singer was the universal topic. The
people of the music-boat swore that no one besides themselves had been
on board, and that they knew as little as ourselves about the owner of
that voice. The gondoliers, despite their descent from the spies of
the old Republic, were equally unable to furnish any clue. No musical
celebrity was known or suspected to be at Venice; and every one agreed
that such a singer must be a European celebrity. The strangest thing in
this strange business was, that even among those learned in music there
was no agreement on the subject of this voice: it was called by all
sorts of names and described by all manner of incongruous adjectives;
people went so far as to dispute whether the voice belonged to a man or
to a woman: every one had some new definition.

In all these musical discussions I, alone, brought forward no opinion.
I felt a repugnance, an impossibility almost, of speaking about that
voice; and the more or less commonplace conjectures of my friend had
the invariable effect of sending me out of the room.

Meanwhile my work was becoming daily more difficult, and I soon passed
from utter impotence to a state of inexplicable agitation. Every
morning I arose with fine resolutions and grand projects of work; only
to go to bed that night without having accomplished anything. I spent
hours leaning on my balcony, or wandering through the network of lanes
with their ribbon of blue sky, endeavoring vainly to expel the thought
of that voice, or endeavoring in reality to reproduce it in my memory;
for the more I tried to banish it from my thoughts, the more I grew
to thirst for that extraordinary tone, for those mysteriously downy,
veiled notes; and no sooner did I make an effort to work at my opera
than my head was full of scraps of forgotten eighteenth century airs,
of frivolous or languishing little phrases; and I fell to wondering
with a bitter-sweet longing how those songs would have sounded if sung
by that voice.

At length it became necessary to see a doctor, from whom, however, I
carefully hid away all the stranger symptoms of my malady. The air of
the lagoons, the great heat, he answered cheerfully, had pulled me down
a little; a tonic and a month in the country, with plenty of riding
and no work, would make me myself again. That old idler, Count Alvise,
who had insisted on accompanying me to the physician’s, immediately
suggested that I should go and stay with his son, who was boring
himself to death superintending the maize harvest on the mainland: he
could promise me excellent air, plenty of horses, and all the peaceful
surroundings and the delightful occupations of a rural life—“Be
sensible, my dear Magnus, and just go quietly to Mistrà.”

Mistrà—the name sent a shiver all down me. I was about to decline the
invitation, when a thought suddenly loomed vaguely in my mind.

“Yes, dear Count,” I answered; “I accept your invitation with gratitude
and pleasure. I will start tomorrow for Mistrà.”

The next day found me at Padua, on my way to the Villa of Mistrà. It
seemed as if I had left an intolerable burden behind me. I was, for
the first time since how long, quite light of heart. The tortuous,
rough-paved streets, with their empty, gloomy porticoes; the
ill-plastered palaces, with closed, discolored shutters; the little
rambling square, with meager trees and stubborn grass; the Venetian
garden-houses reflecting their crumbling graces in the muddy canal;
the gardens without gates and the gates without gardens, the avenues
leading nowhere; and the population of blind and legless beggars,
of whining sacristans, which issued as by magic from between the
flag-stones and dust-heaps and weeds under the fierce August sun, all
this dreariness merely amused and pleased me. My good spirits were
heightened by a musical mass which I had the good fortune to hear at
St. Anthony’s.

Never in all my days had I heard anything comparable, although Italy
affords many strange things in the way of sacred music. Into the deep
nasal chanting of the priests there had suddenly burst a chorus of
children, singing absolutely independent of all time and tune; grunting
of priests answered by squealing of boys, slow Gregorian modulation
interrupted by jaunty barrel-organ pipings, an insane, insanely merry
jumble of bellowing and barking, mewing and cackling and braying, such
as would have enlivened a witches’ meeting, or rather some mediaeval
Feast of Fools. And, to make the grotesqueness of such music still more
fantastic and Hoffmannlike, there was, besides, the magnificence of the
piles of sculptured marbles and gilded bronzes, the tradition of the
musical splendor for which St. Anthony’s had been famous in days gone
by. I had read in old travelers, Lalande and Burney, that the Republic
of St. Mark had squandered immense sums not merely on the monuments and
decoration, but on the musical establishment of its great cathedral
of Terra Firma. In the midst of this ineffable concert of impossible
voices and instruments, I tried to imagine the voice of Guadagni, the
soprano for whom Gluck had written _Che faru senza Euridice_, and the
fiddle of Tartini, that Tartini with whom the devil had once come and
made music. And the delight in anything so absolutely, barbarously,
grotesquely, fantastically incongruous as such a performance in such
a place was heightened by a sense of profanation: such were the
successors of those wonderful musicians of that hated eighteenth
century!

The whole thing had delighted me so much, so very much more than the
most faultless performance could have done, that I determined to enjoy
it once more; and towards vesper-time, after a cheerful dinner with two
bagmen at the inn of the Golden Star, and a pipe over the rough sketch
of a possible cantata upon the music which the devil made for Tartini,
I turned my steps once more towards St. Anthony’s.

The bells were ringing for sunset, and a muffled sound of organs
seemed to issue from the huge, solitary church; I pushed my way under
the heavy leathern curtain, expecting to be greeted by the grotesque
performance of that morning.

I proved mistaken. Vespers must long have been over. A smell of stale
incense, a crypt-like damp filled my mouth; it was already night in
that vast cathedral. Out of the darkness glimmered the votive-lamps of
the chapels, throwing wavering lights upon the red polished marble, the
gilded railing, and chandeliers, and plaqueing with yellow the muscles
of some sculptured figure. In a corner a burning taper put a halo about
the head of a priest, burnishing his shining bald skull, his white
surplice, and the open book before him. “Amen” he chanted; the book was
closed with a snap, the light moved up the apse, some dark figures of
women rose from their knees and passed quickly towards the door; a man
saying his prayers before a chapel also got up, making a great clatter
in dropping his stick.

The church was empty, and I expected every minute to be turned out
by the sacristan making his evening round to close the doors. I was
leaning against a pillar, looking into the greyness of the great
arches, when the organ suddenly burst out into a series of chords,
rolling through the echoes of the church: it seemed to be the
conclusion of some service. And above the organ rose the notes of a
voice; high, soft, enveloped in a kind of downiness, like a cloud of
incense, and which ran through the mazes of a long cadence. The voice
dropped into silence; with two thundering chords the organ closed
in. All was silent. For a moment I stood leaning against one of the
pillars of the nave: my hair was clammy, my knees sank beneath me,
an enervating heat spread through my body; I tried to breathe more
largely, to suck in the sounds with the incense-laden air. I was
supremely happy, and yet as if I were dying; then suddenly a chill ran
through me, and with it a vague panic. I turned away and hurried out
into the open.

The evening sky lay pure and blue along the jagged line of roofs;
the bats and swallows were wheeling about; and from the belfries all
around, half-drowned by the deep bell of St. Anthony’s, jangled the
peel of the _Ave Maria_.

“You really don’t seem well,” young Count Alvise had said the previous
evening, as he welcomed me, in the light of a lantern held up by a
peasant, in the weedy back-garden of the Villa of Mistrà. Everything
had seemed to me like a dream: the jingle of the horse’s bells driving
in the dark from Padua, as the lantern swept the acacia-hedges with
their wide yellow light; the grating of the wheels on the gravel;
the supper-table, illumined by a single petroleum lamp for fear of
attracting mosquitoes, where a broken old lackey, in an old stable
jacket, handed round the dishes among the fumes of onion; Alvise’s
fat mother gabbling dialect in a shrill, benevolent voice behind
the bullfights on her fan; the unshaven village priest, perpetually
fidgeting with his glass and foot, and sticking one shoulder up above
the other. And now, in the afternoon, I felt as if I had been in this
long, rambling, tumble-down Villa of Mistrà—a villa three-quarters of
which was given up to the storage of grain and garden tools, or to
the exercise of rats, mice, scorpions, and centipedes—all my life; as
if I had always sat there, in Count Alvise’s study, among the pile of
undusted books on agriculture, the sheaves of accounts, the samples of
grain and silkworm seed, the ink-stains and the cigar-ends; as if I had
never heard of anything save the cereal basis of Italian agriculture,
the diseases of maize, the peronospora of the vine, the breeds of
bullocks, and the iniquities of farm laborers; with the blue cones of
the Euganean hills closing in the green shimmer of plain outside the
window.

After an early dinner, again with the screaming gabble of the fat old
Countess, the fidgeting and shoulder-raising of the unshaven priest,
the smell of fried oil and stewed onions, Count Alvise made me get into
the cart beside him, and whirled me along among clouds of dust, between
the endless glister of poplars, acacias, and maples, to one of his
farms.

In the burning sun some twenty or thirty girls, in colored skirts,
laced bodices, and big straw-hats, were threshing the maize on the big
red brick threshing-floor, while others were winnowing the grain in
great sieves. Young Alvise III. (the old one was Alvise II.: every one
is Alvise, that is to say, Lewis, in that family; the name is on the
house, the carts, the barrows, the very pails) picked up the maize,
touched it, tasted it, said something to the girls that made them
laugh, and something to the head farmer that made him look very glum;
and then led me into a huge stable, where some twenty or thirty white
bullocks were stamping, switching their tails, hitting their horns
against the mangers in the dark. Alvise III. patted each, called him by
his name, gave him some salt or a turnip, and explained which was the
Mantuan breed, which the Apulian, which the Romagnolo, and so on. Then
he bade me jump into the trap, and off we went again through the dust,
among the hedges and ditches, till we came to some more brick farm
buildings with pinkish roofs smoking against the blue sky. Here there
were more young women threshing and winnowing the maize, which made a
great golden Danaë cloud; more bullocks stamping and lowing in the cool
darkness; more joking, fault-finding, explaining; and thus through five
farms, until I seemed to see the rhythmical rising and falling of the
flails against the hot sky, the shower of golden grains, the yellow
dust from the winnowing-sieves on to the bricks, the switching of
innumerable tails and plunging of innumerable horns, the glistening of
huge white flanks and foreheads, whenever I closed my eyes.

“A good day’s work!” cried Count Alvise, stretching out his long legs
with the tight trousers riding up over the Wellington boots. “Mamma,
give us some aniseed-syrup after dinner; it is an excellent restorative
and precaution against the fevers of this country.”

“Oh! you’ve got fever in this part of the world, have you? Why, your
father said the air was so good!”

“Nothing, nothing,” soothed the old Countess. “The only thing to be
dreaded are mosquitoes; take care to fasten your shutters before
lighting the candle.”

“Well,” rejoined young Alvise, with an effort of conscience, “of course
there _are_ fevers. But they needn’t hurt you. Only, don’ go out into
the garden at night, if you don’t want to catch them. Papa told me that
you have fancies for moonlight rambles. It won’t do in this climate,
my dear fellow; it won’t do. If you must stalk about at night, being
a genius, take a turn inside the house; you can get quite exercise
enough.”

After dinner the aniseed-syrup was produced, together with brandy and
cigars, and they all sat in the long, narrow, half-furnished room on
the first floor; the old Countess knitting a garment of uncertain shape
and destination, the priest reading out the newspaper; Count Alvise
puffing at his long, crooked cigar, and pulling the ears of a long,
lean dog with a suspicion of mange and a stiff eye. From the dark
garden outside rose the hum and whirr of countless insects, and the
smell of the grapes which hung black against the starlit, blue sky,
on the trellis. I went to the balcony. The garden lay dark beneath;
against the twinkling horizon stood out the tall poplars. There was
the sharp cry of an owl; the barking of a dog; a sudden whiff of warm,
enervating perfume, a perfume that made me think of the taste of
certain peaches, and suggested white, thick, wax-like petals. I seemed
to have smelt that flower once before: it made me feel languid, almost
faint.

“I am very tired,” I said to Count Alvise. “See how feeble we city folk
become!”

But, despite my fatigue, I found it quite impossible to sleep. The
night seemed perfectly stifling. I had felt nothing like it at Venice.
Despite the injunctions of the Countess I opened the solid wooden
shutters, hermetically closed against mosquitoes, and looked out.

The moon had risen; and beneath it lay the big lawns, the rounded
tree-tops, bathed in a blue, luminous mist, every leaf glistening and
trembling in what seemed a heaving sea of light. Beneath the window was
the long trellis, with the white shining piece of pavement under it. It
was so bright that I could distinguish the green of the vine-leaves,
the dull red of the catalpa-flowers. There was in the air a vague scent
of cut grass, of ripe American grapes, of that white flower (it must be
white) which made me think of the taste of peaches all melting into the
delicious freshness of falling dew. From the village church came the
stroke of one: Heaven knows how long I had been vainly attempting to
sleep. A shiver ran through me, and my head suddenly filled as with the
fumes of some subtle wine; I remembered all those weedy embankments,
those canals full of stagnant water, the yellow faces of the peasants;
the word malaria returned to my mind. No matter! I remained leaning
on the window, with a thirsty longing to plunge myself into this blue
moonmist, this dew and perfume and silence, which seemed to vibrate and
quiver like the stars that strewed the depths of heaven.... What music,
even Wagner’s, or of that great singer of starry nights, the divine
Schumann, what music could ever compare with this great silence, with
this great concert of voiceless things that sing within one’s soul?

As I made this reflection, a note, high, vibrating, and sweet, rent
the silence, which immediately closed around it. I leaned out of the
window, my heart beating as though it must burst. After a brief space
the silence was cloven once more by that note, as the darkness is
cloven by a falling star or a firefly rising slowly like a rocket. But
this time it was plain that the voice did not come, as I had imagined,
from the garden, but from the house itself, from some corner of this
rambling old villa of Mistrà.

Mistrà—Mistrà! The name rang in my ears, and I began at length to grasp
its significance, which seems to have escaped me till then. “Yes,” I
said to myself, “it is quite natural.” And with this odd impression of
naturalness was mixed a feverish, impatient pleasure. It was as if I
had come to Mistrà on purpose, and that I was about to meet the object
of my long and weary hopes.

Grasping the lamp with its singed green shade, I gently opened the
door and made my way through a series of long passages and of big,
empty rooms, in which my steps re-echoed as in a church, and my light
disturbed whole swarms of bats. I wandered at random, farther and
farther from the inhabited part of the buildings.

This silence made me feel sick; I gasped as under a sudden
disappointment.

All of a sudden there came a sound—chords, metallic, sharp, rather
like the tone of a mandolin—close to my ear. Yes, quite close: I was
separated from the sounds only by a partition. I fumbled for a door;
the unsteady light of my lamp was insufficient for my eyes, which were
swimming like those of a drunkard. At last I found a latch, and, after
a moment’s hesitation, I lifted it and gently pushed open the door.
At first I could not understand what manner of place I was in. It was
dark all round me, but a brilliant light blinded me, a light coming
from below and striking the opposite wall. It was as if I had entered
a dark box in a half-lighted theatre. I was, in fact, in something of
the kind, a sort of dark hole with a high balustrade, half-hidden by
an up-drawn curtain. I remembered those little galleries or recesses
for the use of musicians or lookers-on—which exist under the ceiling of
the ballrooms in certain old Italian palaces. Yes; it must have been
one like that. Opposite me was a vaulted ceiling covered with gilt
moldings, which framed great time-blackened canvases; and lower down,
in the light thrown up from below, stretched a wall covered with faded
frescoes. Where had I seen that goddess in lilac and lemon draperies
foreshortened over a big, green peacock? For she was familiar to me,
and the stucco Tritons also who twisted their tails round her gilded
frame. And that fresco, with warriors in Roman cuirasses and green and
blue lappets, and knee-breeches—where could I have seen them before?
I asked myself these questions without experiencing any surprise.
Moreover, I was very calm, as one is calm sometimes in extraordinary
dreams—could I be dreaming?

I advanced gently and leaned over the balustrade. My eyes were met at
first by the darkness above me, where, like gigantic spiders, the big
chandeliers rotated slowly, hanging from the ceiling. Only one of them
was lit, and its Murano-glass pendants, its carnations and roses, shone
opalescent in the light of the guttering wax. This chandelier lighted
up the opposite wall and that piece of ceiling with the goddess and
the green peacock; it illumined, but far less well, a corner of the
huge room, where, in the shadow of a kind of canopy, a little group
of people were crowding round a yellow satin sofa, of the same kind
as those that lined the walls. On the sofa, half-screened from me by
the surrounding persons, a woman was stretched out: the silver of her
embroidered dress and the rays of her diamonds gleamed and shot forth
as she moved uneasily. And immediately under the chandelier, in the
full light, a man stooped over a harpsichord, his head bent slightly,
as if collecting his thoughts before singing.

He struck a few chords and sang. Yes, sure enough, it was the voice,
the voice that had so long been persecuting me! I recognized at once
that delicate, voluptuous quality, strange, exquisite, sweet beyond
words, but lacking all youth and clearness. That passion veiled in
tears which had troubled my brain that night on the lagoon, and again
on the Grand Canal singing the _Biondina_, and yet again, only two days
since, in the deserted cathedral of Padua. But I recognized now what
seemed to have been hidden from me till then, that this voice was what
I cared most for in all the wide world.

The voice wound and unwound itself in long, languishing phrases, in
rich, voluptuous _rifiorituras_, all fretted with tiny scales and
exquisite, crisp shakes; it stopped ever and anon, swaying as if
panting in languid delight. And I felt my body melt even as wax in
the sunshine, and it seemed to me that I too was turning fluid and
vaporous, in order to mingle with these sounds as the moonbeams mingle
with the dew.

Suddenly, from the dimly lighted corner by the canopy, came a little
piteous wail; then another followed, and was lost in the singer’s
voice. During a long phrase on the harpsichord, sharp and tinkling, the
singer turned his head towards the dais, and there came a plaintive
little sob. But he, instead of stopping, struck a sharp chord; and with
a thread of voice so hushed as to be scarcely audible, slid softly
into a long _cadenza_. At the same moment he threw his head backwards,
and the light fell full upon the handsome, effeminate face, with its
ashy pallor and big, black brows, of the singer Zaffirino. At the
sight of that face, sensual and sullen, of that smile which was cruel
and mocking like a bad woman’s, I understood—I knew not why, by what
process—that his singing _must_ be cut short, that the accursed phrase
_must_ never be finished. I understood that I was before an assassin,
that he was killing this woman, and killing me also, with his wicked
voice.

I rushed down the narrow stair which led down from the box, pursued,
as it were, by that exquisite voice, swelling, swelling by insensible
degrees. I flung myself on the door which must be that of the big
saloon. I could see its light between the panels. I bruised my hands
in trying to wrench the latch. The door was fastened tight, and while
I was struggling with that locked door I heard the voice swelling,
swelling, rending asunder that downy veil which wrapped it, leaping
forth clear, resplendent, like the sharp and glittering blade of a
knife that seemed to enter deep into my breast. Then, once more, a
wail, a death-groan, and that dreadful noise, that hideous gurgle of
breath strangled by a rush of blood. And then a long shake, acute,
brilliant, triumphant.

The door gave way beneath my weight, one half crashed in. I entered.
I was blinded by a flood of blue moonlight. It poured in through four
great windows, peaceful and diaphanous, a pale blue mist of moonlight,
and turned the huge room into a kind of submarine cave, paved with
moonbeams, full of shimmers, of pools of moonlight. It was as bright as
at midday, but the brightness was cold, blue, vaporous, supernatural.
The room was completely empty, like a great hayloft. Only, there hung
from the ceiling the ropes which had once supported a chandelier; and
in a corner, among stacks of wood and heaps of Indian-corn, whence
spread a sickly smell of damp and mildew, there stood a long, thin
harpsichord, with spindle-legs, and its cover cracked from end to end.

I felt, all of a sudden, very calm. The one thing that mattered
was the phrase that kept moving in my head, the phrase of that
unfinished cadence which I had heard but an instant before. I opened
the harpsichord, and my fingers came down boldly upon its keys. A
jingle-jangle of broken strings, laughable and dreadful, was the only
answer.

Then an extraordinary fear overtook me. I clambered out of one of the
windows; I rushed up the garden and wandered through the fields, among
the canals and the embankments, until the moon had set and the dawn
began to shiver, followed, pursued for ever by that jangle of broken
strings.

People expressed much satisfaction at my recovery.

It seems that one dies of those fevers.

Recovery? But have I recovered? I walk, and eat and drink and talk; I
can even sleep. I live the life of other living creatures. But I am
wasted by a strange and deadly disease. I can never lay hold of my own
inspiration. My head is filled with music which is certainly by me,
since I have never heard it before, but which still is not my own,
which I despise and abhor: little, tripping flourishes and languishing
phrases, and long-drawn, echoing cadences.

O wicked, wicked voice, violin of flesh and blood made by the Evil
One’s hand, may I not even execrate thee in peace; but is it necessary
that, at the moment when I curse, the longing to hear thee again should
parch my soul like hell-thirst? And since I have satiated thy lust for
revenge, since thou hast withered my life and withered my genius, is it
not time for pity? May I not hear one note, only one note of thine, O
singer, O wicked and contemptible wretch?

                      _Other books by Vernon Lee_
                                Fiction
                             _Miss Brown_
                               _Baldwin_
