"HALF-WAY BETWEEN THE STILES."

(A RIGHT-OF-WAY INCIDENT.)

By the road, Scarby village is good three miles from Colletwood, the
nearest town and railway station. But there is a short cut over the
hills for foot passengers. _Over_ the hills they call it, but _between_
the hills would be more correct, for there is a sort of tableland once
you have climbed a short, steep bit up from the town, which extends
nearly to Scarby, sloping gradually down to the village.

And on each side of this tableland the hills rise again, north and
south, much higher to the north than to the south. So this flat stretch,
though at some considerable height, is neither bleak nor exposed, being
sheltered on the colder side, and fairly open to the sunshine south and
west.

It is a pleasant place, and so it must have been considered in the old
days; for a large monastery stood there once, of which the ruins are
still to be seen, and of which the memory is still preserved in the
name--"Monksholdings".

Pleasant, but a trifle inconvenient, as the only carriage-road makes a
great round from Colletwood, winding along the base of the hill on the
north side till it reaches the village, then up again by the gradual
slope, half a mile or so--a drive in all of three to four miles,
whereas, as the bird flies or the pedestrian walks, the distance from
the town is barely a quarter of that.

In the old days there was probably no road at all, the hill-path
doubtless serving all requirements. Naturally enough, therefore, it came
to be looked upon as entirely public property, and people forgot--if,
indeed, any one had ever thought of it--that though the monastery was a
ruin, the once carefully kept land round about the old dwelling-place of
Monksholdings was still private property.

And the sensation was great when suddenly the news reached the
neighbourhood that this "unique estate," as the agents called it, was
sold--sold by the old Duke of Scarshire, who scarcely remembered that
he owned it, to a man who meant to live on it, to build a house which
should be a home for several months of the year for himself and his
family.

There was considerable growling and grumbling; and this rose to its
height when a rumour got about that the hill-path--such part of it, that
is to say, as lay within the actual demesne--was to be closed--_must_ be
closed, if the site already chosen for the new house was to be retained;
for the house would actually stand upon the old foot-track, and there
could be no two opinions that this position had been well and wisely
selected.

Things grew warlike, boding no agreeable reception for the newcomers--a
Mr. Raynald and his family, newcomers to England, it was said, as well
as to Scarshire. Every one plunged into questions of right-of-way; the
local legalities raised and discussed knotty points; Colletwood and
Scarby were aflame. But it all ended, flatly enough, in a compromise!

Mr. Raynald turned out to be one of the most reasonable and courteous of
men. He came, saw, and--conquered. The goodwill of his future neighbours
was won e'er he knew he had risked its loss. Henceforward congratulations,
reciprocated and repeated, on the charming additions to Scarby society
were the order of the day, and the _détour_, skirting the south boundary
of the Monksholdings grounds, which the footpath was now inveigled into
making, was voted "a great improvement".

And in due time the mansion rose.

"A great improvement" also, to the aspect of the surrounding landscape.
It was in perfectly good taste--unpretentious and quietly picturesque.
It might have been there always for any jarring protest to the contrary.

And just half-way along the old foot-track, that is to say, between the
two stiles which let the traveller to or from Scarby in or out of the
Monksholdings demesne, stood Sybil Raynald's grand piano!

The stiles remained as an interesting survival; but they were made use
of by no one not bound for the house itself. And beside each was a
gate--a good oaken gate, that suited the place, as did everything about
it; and beside each gate a quaint miniature dwelling, one of which came
to be known as the east, and the other as the west, Monksholdings lodge.

The first time the Raynalds came down to their new home they made but
a short stay there. It was already late in the season, and though the
preceding summer had been a magnificent one for drying fresh walls and
plaster, it would scarcely have done to risk damp or chilly weather in
so recently-built a house.

They stayed long enough to confirm the favourable impression the head of
the family had already made, and to lead themselves to look forward with
pleasure to a less curtailed stay in Scarshire.

The last morning of their visit, Sybil, the eldest daughter, up and
about betimes, turned to her father, when she had taken her place beside
him at the breakfast-table, with a suspicion of annoyance on her usually
cheerful face.

"Papa," she said, "I have seen that old man _again_, leaning on the
stile by the Scarby lodge and looking in--along the drive--_so_ queerly.
I don't quite like it. It gave me rather a ghosty feeling; or else he is
out of his mind."

Her brother, Mark by name, began to laugh, after the manner of brothers.

"How very oddly you express yourself!" he said. "I should like to
experience 'a ghosty feeling'. A ghost is just what this place wants to
make it perfect. But it should be the spirit of one of the original
monks."

Mr. Raynald turned to his son rather sharply.

"I don't want any nonsense of that kind set about, Mark," he said. "It
would frighten the younger children when they come down here. I will ask
about the old man. It is quite possible he is half-witted, or something
of that sort. I forgot about it when Sybil mentioned it before. But no
doubt he is perfectly harmless. Has no one seen him but you, Sybil?"

The girl shook her head.

"None of _us_," she replied. "And I wasn't exactly frightened. There was
something very pathetic about him. He looked at me closely, murmuring
some words, and then shook his head. That was all."

But just then her father was called away to give some last directions,
and in the bustle of hurry to catch their train the matter passed from
the minds of the younger as well as the elder members of the family.

It returned to Sybil's memory, however, when she found herself in their
London house again, and called upon by her younger sisters to relate
every detail of Monksholdings and its neighbourhood. But mindful of her
father's warning, she said nothing to Esther or Annis of the figure at
the gate. It was only to Miss March--Ellinor March--the dearly-loved
governess, who was more friend than teacher to her three pupils, that
she spoke of it, late in the evening, when the younger ones had gone to
bed, and her father and mother were busy with Indian letters in Mr.
Raynald's study.

The two girls, we may say--for Ellinor was still some years under
thirty--were alone in the drawing-room. Ellinor had been playing
something tender and faintly weird--it died away under her fingers, and
she sat on at the piano in silence.

Sybil spoke suddenly.

"That is _so_ melancholy," she said, "something so long ago about it,
like the ghost of a sorrow rather than a sorrow itself. I know--I know
what it makes me think of. Listen, Ellinor."

For out of school hours the two threw formality aside. And Sybil told of
the sad, wistful old face looking over the stile.

"Now it has come back to me," she said, "I can't forget it."

Ellinor, too, was impressed.

"Yes," she said, "it sounds very pitiful. Who knows what tragedy is
bound up in it?" and she sighed.

Sybil understood her. Miss March's own history was a strange one.

"We must find out about it when we go down to Monksholdings next year,"
she said.

"And perhaps," added Ellinor, "even if he is half-witted, we might do
something to comfort the poor man."

Sybil hesitated.

"Then you don't think he can be a ghost?" she said, looking half ashamed
of the suggestion.

Miss March smiled--her smile was sad.

"In one sense, no, I should think it highly improbable; in another, yes,
there must be the ghost of some great sorrow about the face you
describe," she said.

So there was.

This is the story.

At the farther end of Scarby village--the farther end, that is to say,
from Monksholdings and the path between the hills--the road drops
again somewhat suddenly. Only for a short distance, however; Mayling
Farm--"Giles's" as it is colloquially called--which is the first house
you come to when you reach level ground again, being by no means low
lying.

On the contrary, the west windows command a grand view of the great
Scarshire plain beneath, bordered by the faint hazy blue, scarcely to be
distinguished from clouds, of the long range of hills concealing the
far-off glimmer of the ocean, which otherwise might sometimes be
perceptible.

Mayling is a very old place, and the Giles's had been there "always," so
to speak--steady-going, unambitious, save as regards their farming and
its success; they had been just the make of men to settle on to their
ground as if it and they could have no existence apart. A fine race
physically as well as morally, though some twenty-five years or so
before the Raynalds bought Monksholdings, a run of ill luck, a whole
chapter of casualties, had brought them down to but one representative,
and he scarcely the typical Farmer Giles of Mayling.

This was Barnett, the youngest of four stalwart sons; the youngest and
the only survivor. He was already forty when his father died, earnestly
commending to him the "old place," which even at eighty the aged farmer
felt himself better fitted to manage than the somewhat delicate,
sensitive man whom his brothers had made good-natured fun of in his
youth as a "book-worm".

But Barnett was intelligent and sensible, and he rose to the occasion.
Circumstances helped him. The year after old Giles's death Barnett for
the first time fell in love, wisely and well. His affection was bestowed
on a worthy object--Marion Grover, the daughter of a yeoman in the next
county--and was fully returned.

Marion was years younger than her lover, fifteen at least, eminently
practical, healthy, and pretty. She brought her husband just exactly
what he was most in need of--brightness, energy, and youth. It was an
ideal marriage, and everything prospered at Mayling. Four years after
the advent of the new Mrs. Giles you would scarcely have recognised the
farmer, he seemed another man.

He adored his wife, and could hardly find it in his heart to regret that
their child was not a son, even though, failing an heir, the old name
must die out; for if there was one creature the husband and wife loved
more than each other it was their baby girl.

A month or two after this child's second birthday the singular
catastrophe occurred which changed the world to poor Barnett Giles,
leaving him but a wreck of his former self, physically and mentally.

Young Mrs. Giles was strong in every way, and from the first she took
the line of saving her husband all extra fatigue or annoyance which
she could possibly hoist on to her own brave shoulders. There was
something quaint and even pathetic in the relations of the couple. For,
notwithstanding Marion's being so much Barnett's junior, her attitude
towards him had a decided suggestion of the maternal about it, though at
times of real emergency his sound judgment and advice never failed her.
It was within a week or two of Christmas; the weather was bitingly,
raspingly cold. And though as yet no snow had fallen, the weather-wise
were predicting it daily.

"I _must_ go over to Colletwood this week," said Mrs. Giles, "and I must
take Nelly. Her new coat is waiting to be tried at the dressmaker's, and
I must get her some boots and several other things before Christmas. And
there is a whole list of other shopping too--all our Christmas presents
to see to."

Her husband was looking out of the window, it was still very early in
the day.

"I doubt if the snow will hold off much longer," he said.

"And once it begins it may be heavy," his wife replied, "and then I
might not be able to go for ever so long, even by the road,"--for a deep
fall of snow at Scarby was practically a stoppage to all traffic. "I'll
tell you what, Barnett, we'll go to-day and make sure of it. I will put
other things aside and start before noon. A couple of hours, or three at
the most, will do everything, and then Nelly and I will be back long
before dark. You'll come to meet us, won't you?"

"Of course I will--if you go. But," and again he glanced at the sky.
The morning was, so far, clear and bright, though very cold, but over
towards the north there was a suspicious look about the blue-grey
clouds. "I don't know," he said, "but that you'd better wait till
to-morrow and see if it blows off again."

But Marion shook her head.

"I've a feeling," she said, "that if I don't go to-day, I won't go at
all. And I really must. I'll take Betsy to carry the child till we're
just above the town, and then send her home, so as not to be tired for
coming back. Not that I'm _ever_ tired, as you know," with a smile.

He gave in, only stipulating that at all costs they should start to
return by a certain hour, unless the snow should have already begun, in
which case Marion was to run no risks, but either to hire a fly to bring
her home by the road, or to stay in the town with some of her friends
till the weather cleared again.

"And I'll meet you," he added. "Let us set our watches together--I'll
start from here so as to be at--let me see----"

"Half-way between the stiles," said Marion. "We can each see the other
from one stile to the opposite one, you know, even though it's a good
bit of a way. Yes, dear, I'll time it as near as I can to meet half-way
between the stiles."

And with these words the last on her lips, she set off, a picture of
health and happiness--little Nelly crowing back to "Dada" from over
stout Betsy's shoulder.

Betsy was home again within the hour.

But the mother and child--alas and alas! It was the immortal story of
"Lucy Gray" in an almost more pathetic shape.

Farmer Giles, as I have said, was a studious, often absent-minded man.
There was not much to do at that season and in such weather, and what
there was, some amount of supervision on his part was enough for. After
his early dinner he got out his books for an hour or two's quiet reading
till it should be time to set off to meet his darlings. No fear of his
forgetting _that_ time, but till the clock struck, and he saw it was
approaching nearly, he never looked out--he was unconscious of the rapid
growth of the lurid, steely clouds; he had no idea that the snowflakes
were already falling, falling, more and more closely and thickly with
each instant that passed.

Then rose the storm spirit and issued his orders--all too quickly
obeyed. Before Barnett Giles had left the village street he found
himself in what now-a-days would be called a "blizzard". And his pale
face grew paler, and his heart beat as if to choke him, when at last he
reached the first stile and stood there panting, to regain his breath.
It was all he could do to battle on through the fury of the wind, the
blinding, whirling snow, which seemed to envelop him as if in sheets.
Not for many and many a day will that awful snowstorm be forgotten in
Scarshire.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was at the appointed trysting place they found him--"half-way between
the stiles". But not till late that evening, when Betsy, more alarmed by
his absence than by her mistress's not returning, at last struggled out
through the deep-lying snow to alarm the nearest neighbours.

"The missis and Miss Nell will have stayed the night in the town," she
said. "But I misdoubt me if the master will ever have got so far, though
he may have been tempted on when he did not meet them."

By this time the fury of the storm had spent itself, and they found poor
Giles after a not very protracted search, and brought him home--dead,
they thought at first.

No, he was not dead, but it was less than half _life_ that he
returned to. For his first inquiry late the next day, when glimmering
consciousness had begun to revive--"Marion, the baby?"--seemed by some
subtle instinct to answer itself truthfully, in spite of the kindly
endeavour to deceive him for the time.

"Dead!" he murmured. "I knew it. Half-way between the stiles," and he
turned his face to the wall.

They almost wished he had died too--the rough but kind-hearted
country-folk who were his neighbours. But he lived. He never asked and
never knew the details of the tragedy, which, indeed, was never fully
known by any one.

All that came to light was that the dead body of Marion Giles was
brought by some semi-gipsy wanderers to the workhouse of a town several
miles south of Colletwood, early on the morning after the blizzard. They
had found it, they said, at some little distance from the road along
which they were journeying, so that she must have lost her way long
before approaching the Monksholdings confines, not improbably, indeed,
in attempting to retrace her steps to the town which she had so
imprudently quitted. But of the child the tramps said nothing, and after
making the above deposition, they were allowed to go on their way, which
they expressed themselves as anxious to do; for reasons of their own, no
doubt; possibly the same reasons which had prevented their returning to
Colletwood with the young woman's corpse, as would have seemed more
natural.

And afterwards no very special inquiry was made about the baby. The
father was incapable of it, and in those days people accepted things
more carelessly, perhaps. It was taken for granted that "Little Nell"
had fallen down some cliff, no doubt, and lay buried there, with the
snow for her shroud, like a strayed lambkin. Her tiny bones might yet be
found, years hence, maybe, by a shepherd in search of some bleating
wanderer, or--no more might ever be known of the infant's fate!

Barnett Giles rose from his bed, after many weeks, with all the look of
a very old man. At first it was thought that his mind was quite gone;
but it did not prove to be so. After a time, with the help of an
excellent foreman, or bailiff, he showed himself able to manage his farm
with a strange, mechanical kind of intelligence. It seemed as if the
sense of duty outlived the loss of other perceptions, though these, too,
cleared by degrees to a considerable extent, and material things,
curious as it may appear, prospered with him.

But he rarely spoke unless obliged to do so; and whenever he felt
himself at leisure, and knew that his work was not calling for him, he
seemed to relapse into the half-dreamy state which was his more real
life. Then he would pass through the village and slowly climb the slope
to the stile, where he would stand for hours together, patiently gazing
before him, while he murmured the old refrain: "'Half-way between the
stiles,' she said. I shall meet them there, 'half-way between the
stiles'."

Fortunately, perhaps, it was not often he attempted to climb over; he
contented himself with standing and gazing. Fortunately so, for
otherwise the changes at Monksholdings would have probably terribly
shocked his abnormally sensitive brain. But he did not seem to notice
them, nor the new route of the old right-of-way agreed to by the
compromise. He was content with his post--standing, leaning on the
stile, and gazing before him.

His, of course, was the worn, wistful face which had half frightened,
half appealed to Sybil Raynald.

But she forgot about it again, or other things put it temporarily
aside, so that when the Raynalds came down to Monksholdings again the
following Easter it did not at once occur to her to remind her father of
the inquiry he had promised to make.

Miss March was not with her pupils and their parents at first. She had
gone to spend a holiday week with the friends who had brought her up
and seen to her education--good, benevolent people, if not specially
sympathetic, but to whom she felt herself bound by ties of sincerest
gratitude, though her five years with the Raynald family had given her
more of the feeling of a "home" than she had ever had before.

And her arrival at Monksholdings was the occasion of much rejoicing.
There was everything to show her, and every one, from Mark down to
little Robin, wanted to be her guide. It was not till the morning of the
next day that Sybil managed to get her to herself for a _tête-à-tête_
stroll.

Ellinor had some things to tell her quondam pupil. Mrs. Bellairs, her
self-appointed guardian, was growing old and somewhat feeble.

"I fear she is not likely to live many years," said Miss March, "and she
thinks so herself. She has a curious longing, which I never saw in her
before, to find out my history--to know if there is no one really
belonging to me to whom she can give me back, as it were, before she
dies. She gave me the little parcel containing the clothes I had on when
she rescued me from being sent to a workhouse. They are carefully washed
and mended, and though I was a poor, dirty little object when I was
found, they do not look really as if I had been a beggar child," with a
little smile.

"You a beggar child!" exclaimed Sybil indignantly. "Of course not.
Perhaps, on the contrary, you were somebody very grand."

"No, no," said Ellinor sensibly. "In that case I should have been
advertised for and inquired after. No, I have never thought that, and I
should not wish it. I should be more than thankful to know I came of
good, honest people, however simple; to have some one of my very own."

"I forget the actual details," said Sybil, "though you have often told
me about it. You were found--no, not literally in the workhouse, was
it?"

"They were going to take me there," said Miss March. "It was at a
village near Bath where Mr. and Mrs. Bellairs were then living, and
one day, after a party of gipsies had been encamping on the common, a
cottager's wife heard something crying in the night, and found me in her
little garden. She was too poor to keep me herself, and felt certain I
was a child the gipsies had stolen and then wanted to get rid of. I was
fair-haired and blue-eyed, not like them. She was a friend or relation
of some of Mrs. Bellairs's servants, and so the story got round to my
kind old friend. And you know the rest--how they first thought of
bringing me up in quite a humble way, and then finding me--well,
intelligent and naturally rather refined, I suppose, I got a really good
education, and my good luck did not desert me, dear, when I came to be
your governess."

Sybil smiled.

"And can you remember _nothing_?"

Ellinor hesitated.

"Queer, dreamy fragments come back to me sometimes," she said. "I have
a feeling of having seen hills long, long ago. It is strange," she
went on, for by this time they had left the private grounds and were
strolling along the hill-path in the direction of the town, "it is
strange that since I came here I seem to have got hold of a tiny bit of
these old memories, if they are such. It must be the hills," and she
stood still and gazed round her with a deep breath of satisfaction, "I
could only have been between two and three when I was found," she went
on. "The only words I said were 'Dada' and 'Nennie'--it sounded like
'Nelly'. That was why Mrs. Bellairs called me 'Ellinor,' and 'March,'
because it was in that month she took me to her house."

Sybil walked on in silence for a moment or two.

"It _is_ such a romantic story," she said at last. "I am never tired of
thinking about it."

They entered Monksholdings again from the east entrance, Ellinor glanced
at the stile.

"By-the-bye," she said, "this is one of the two old stiles, I suppose.
Have you ever seen your ghost again, Sybil? Have you found out anything
about him?"

Sybil looked round her half nervously.

"It is the other stile he haunts," she said. "I rather avoid it, at
least, I mean to do so now. It is curious you speak of it, for till
yesterday I had not seen him again, and had almost forgotten about it.
But yesterday afternoon, just before you came, there he was--exactly
the same, staring in. I meant to speak to papa about it, but with the
pleasure and bustle of your arrival, I forgot it. Remind me about it. I
am afraid he is out of his mind."

"Poor old man!" said Ellinor. "I wish we could do something to comfort
him. I feel as if everybody _must_ be happy here. It is such a charming,
exhilarating place. Dear me, how windy it is! The path is all strewn
with the white petals of the cherry blossom."

"They have degenerated into wild cherry trees," said Sybil. "Long ago
papa says these must have been good fruit trees of many kinds, and this
is a great cherry country, you know."

The wind dropped that afternoon, but only temporarily. It rose again so
much during the night that by the next morning the grounds looked, to
use little Annis's expression, "quite untidy".

"And down in the village, or just beyond it," said Mark, who had been
for an early stroll, "at one place it really looks as if it had been
snowing. The road skirts that old farmhouse; you know it, father? I
forget the name--there's a grand cherry orchard there."

"'Mayling Farm,' you must mean," said Mr. Raynald. "Farmer Giles's. Oh,
by the way, that reminds me, Sybil," but a glance round the table made
him stop short. They were at breakfast. He scarcely felt inclined to
relate the tragic story before the younger children, "they might look
frightened or run away if they came across the poor fellow," he
reflected. "I will tell Sybil about it afterwards."

Easter holidays were not yet over, though the governess had returned, so
regular routine was set aside, and the whole of the young party, Ellinor
included, spent that morning in a scramble among the hills.

The children seemed untirable, and set off again somewhere or other in
the afternoon. Sybil was busy with her mother, writing letters and
orders to be despatched to London, so that towards four o'clock or so,
when Miss March, having finished her own correspondence, entered the
drawing-room, she found it deserted.

Sybil had promised to practise some duets with her, and while waiting on
the chance of her coming, Ellinor seated herself at the piano and began
to play--nothing very important--just snatches of old airs which she
wove into a kind of half-dreamy harmony, one melting into another as
they occurred to her.

All at once a shadow fell on the keys, and then she remembered having
heard the door softly open a moment or two before--so softly, that she
had not looked round, imagining it to be the wind, which, though fallen
now, still lingered about.

Now her ideas took another shape.

"It is Sybil, no doubt," she thought with a smile. "She is going to make
me jump," and she waited, half expecting to feel Sybil's hands suddenly
clasped over her eyes from behind.

But this was not to be the mode of attack, apparently, though she heard
what sounded like stealthy footsteps.

"You need not try to startle me, Sybbie," she exclaimed laughingly,
without turning or ceasing to play, "I hear you."

It was no laughing voice which replied.

On the contrary, a sigh, almost a groan, close to her made her look
up sharply--a trifle indignant perhaps at the joke being carried so
far--and she saw, a pace or two from her only, the figure of an old
man--a white-haired, somewhat bent form, a worn face with wistful blue
eyes--gazing at her.

She had scarcely time to feel frightened, for almost instantaneously
Sybil's "ghost" recurred to her memory.

"He has found his way in, then," she thought, not without a slight
and natural tremor, which, however, disappeared as she gazed, so
pathetically gentle was the whole aspect of the intruder.

But--his face changed curiously--the sight of hers, now fully in
his view, seemed strangely to affect him. With a gesture of utter
bewilderment he raised his hand to his forehead as if to brush something
away--the cloud still resting on his brain--then a smile broke over the
old face, a wonderful smile.

"Marion," he said, "at last? I--I thought I was dreaming. I heard you
playing in my dream. It is the right place though, 'Half-way between the
stiles,' you said. I have waited so long and come so often, and now it
is snowing again. Just a little, dear, nothing to hurt. Marion, my
darling, why don't you speak? Is it all a dream--this fine room, the
music and all? Are _you_ a dream?"

He closed his eyes as if he were fainting. Inexpressibly touched, all
Ellinor's womanly nature went out to him. She started forward, half
leading, half lifting him to a seat close at hand.

"I--I am not Marion," she said, and afterwards she wondered what had
inspired the words, "but I am"--not "Ellinor," something made her change
the name as he spoke--"I am Nelly."

He opened his eyes again.

"Little Nell," he said, "has she sent you down to me from heaven? My
little Nell!"

And then he fell back unconscious--this time he had fainted.

She thought he was dead, but it was not so--her cries for help soon
brought her friends, Mr. Raynald first of all. He did not seem startled,
he soothed Ellinor at once.

"It is poor old Giles," he said. "I know all about him, he has found his
way in at last."

"But--but----," stammered the girl, "there is something else, Mr.
Raynald. I--I seem to remember something."

She looked nearly as white as their poor visitor, and as Mr. Raynald
glanced at her, a curious expression flitted across his own face.

Could it be so? He knew all her story.

"Wait a little, my dear," he said. "We must attend to poor Giles first."

They were very kind and tender to the old man, but he seemed to be
barely conscious, even after restoratives had brought him out of the
actual fainting fit. Then Mrs. Raynald proposed that his servants--his
housekeeper if he had one--should be sent for.

And when faithful Betsy, stout as of old, though less nimble, made her
appearance, her irrepressible emotion at the sight of Ellinor, pale and
trembling though the young governess was, gave form and substance to Mr.
Raynald's suspicions.

Yes, they had met at last--father and daughter--"half-way between the
stiles". He was "Dada," she was little "Nell". Might it not be that
Marion's prayers had brought them together?

Every reasonable proof was forthcoming--the little parcel of clothes,
the correspondence in the dates, the strong resemblance to her mother.

And--joy does not often kill. Barnett was able to understand it all
better than might have been expected. He was never _quite_ himself, but
infinitely better both in mind and body than poor old Betsy had ever
dreamt of seeing him. And he was perfectly content--content to live as
long as it should please God to spare him to his little Nell; ready to
go to his Marion when the time should come.

And Ellinor had her wish--a home, though not a "grand" one; some one of
her "very own" to care for; a father's devoted love, and, to complete
her happiness, the friends who had grown so dear to her close at hand.

More may yet be hers in the future, for she is still young. Her father
may live to see his grandchildren playing about the farmstead at
Mayling, so that, though the name be changed, the old stock will still
nourish where so many generations of its ancestors have sown and
reaped.
