THE SHADOW IN THE MOONLIGHT.

PART I.

We never thought of Finster St. Mabyn's being haunted. We really never
did.

This may seem strange, but it is absolutely true. It was such an
extremely interesting and curious place in many ways that it required
nothing extraneous to add to its attractions. Perhaps this was the
reason.

Now-a-days, immediately that you hear of a house being "very old," the
next remark is sure to be "I hope it is"--or "is not"--that depends on
the taste of the speaker--"haunted".

But Finster was more than very old; it was _ancient_ and, in a modest
way, historical. I will not take up time by relating its history,
however, or by referring my readers to the chronicles in which mention
of it may be found. Nor shall I yield to the temptation of describing
the room in which a certain royalty spent one night, if not two or three
nights, four centuries ago, or the tower, now in ruins, where an even
more renowned personage was imprisoned for several months. All these
facts--or legends--have nothing to do with what I have to tell. Nor,
strictly speaking, has Finster itself, except as a sort of prologue to
my narrative.

We heard of the house through friends living in the same county, though
some distance farther inland. They--Mr. and Miss Miles, it is convenient
to give their name at once--knew that we had been ordered to leave our
own home for some months, to get over the effects of a very trying
visitation of influenza, and that sea-air was specially desirable.

We grumbled at this. Seaside places are often so dull and commonplace.
But when we heard of Finster we grumbled no longer.

"Dull" in a sense it might be, but assuredly not "commonplace". Janet
Miles's description of it, though she was not particularly clever at
description, read like a fairy tale, or one of Longfellow's poems.

"A castle by the sea--how perfect!" we all exclaimed. "Do, oh, do fix
for it, mother!"

The objections were quickly over-ruled. It was rather isolated, said
Miss Miles, standing, as was not difficult to trace in its name, on a
point of land--a corner rather--with sea on two sides. It had not been
lived in, save spasmodically, for some years, for the late owner was one
of those happy, or unhappy people, who have more houses than they can
use, and the present one was a minor. Eventually it was to be overhauled
and some additions and alterations made, but the trustees would be glad
to let it at a moderate rent for some months, and had intended putting
it into some agents' hands when Mr. Miles happened to meet one of them,
who mentioned it to him. There was nothing against it; it was absolutely
healthy. But the furniture was old and shabby, and there was none too
much of it. If we wanted to have visitors we should certainly require to
add to it. This, however, could easily be done, our informant went on to
say. There was a very good upholsterer and furniture dealer at Raxtrew,
the nearest town, who was in the habit of hiring out things to the
officers at the fort. "Indeed," she added, "we often pick up charming
old pieces of furniture from him for next to nothing, so you could both
hire and buy."

Of course, we should have visitors--and our own house would not be the
worse for some additional chairs and tables here and there, in place of
some excellent monstrosities Phil and Nugent and I had persuaded mother
to get rid of.

"If I go down to spy the land with father," I said, "I shall certainly
go to the furniture dealer's and have a good look about me."

I did go with father. I was nineteen--it is four years ago--and a
capable sort of girl. Then I was the only one who had not been ill,
and mother had been the worst of all, mother and Dormy--poor little
chap--for _he_ nearly died.

He is the youngest of us--we are four boys and two girls. Sophy was then
fifteen. My own name is Leila.

If I attempted to give any idea of the impression Finster St. Mabyn's
made upon us, I should go on for hours. It simply took our breath away.
It really felt like going back a few centuries merely to enter within
the walls and gaze round you. And yet we did not see it to any advantage,
so at least said the two Miles's who were our guides. It was a gloomy
day, with the feeling of rain not far off, early in April. It might have
been November, though it was not cold.

"You can scarcely imagine what it is on a bright day," said Janet,
eager, as people always are in such circumstances, to show off her
_trouvaille_. "The lights and shadows are so exquisite."

"I love it as it is," I said. "I don't think I shall ever regret having
seen it first on a grey day. It is just perfect."

She was pleased at my admiration, and did her utmost to facilitate
matters. Father was taken with the place, too, I could see, but he
hummed and hawed a good deal about the bareness of the rooms--the
bedrooms especially. So Janet and I went into it at once in a
business-like way, making lists of the actually necessary additions,
which did not prove very formidable after all.

"Hunter will manage all that _easily_," said Miss Miles, upon which
father gave in--I believe he had meant to do so all the time. The rent
was really so low that a little furniture-hire could be afforded, I
suggested. And father agreed.

"It is extremely low," he said, "for a place possessing so many
advantages."

But even then it did not occur to any of us to suggest "suspiciously
low".

We had the Miles's guarantee for it all, to begin with. Had there been
any objection they must have known it.

We spent the night with them and the next morning at the furniture
dealer's. He was a quick, obliging little man, and took in the situation
at a glance. And _his_ terms were so moderate that father said to me
amiably: "There are some quaint odds and ends here, Leila. You might
choose a few things, to use at Finster in the first place, and then to
take home with us."

I was only too ready to profit by the permission, and with Janet's
help a few charmingly quaint chairs and tables, a three-cornered wall
cabinet, and some other trifles were soon put aside for us. We were just
leaving, when at one end of the shop some tempting-looking draperies
caught my eye.

"What are these?" I asked the upholsterer. "Curtains! Why, this is real
old tapestry!"

The obliging Hunter drew out the material in question.

"They are not exactly curtains, miss," he said. "I thought they would
make nice _portières_. You see the tapestry is set into cloth. It was so
frail when I got it that it was the only thing to do with it."

He had managed it very ingeniously. Two panels, so to say, of old
tapestry, very charming in tone, had been lined and framed with dull
green cloth, making a very good pair of _portières_ indeed.

"Oh, papa!" I cried, "do let us have these. There are sure to be
draughty doors at Finster, and afterwards they would make _perfect_
"_portières_" for the two side doors in the hall at home."

Father eyed the tapestry appreciatively, but first prudently inquired
the price. It seemed higher in proportion than Hunter's other charges.

"You see, sir," he said half apologetically, "the panels are real
antique work, though so much the worse for wear."

"Where did they come from?" asked father.

Hunter hesitated.

"To tell you the truth, sir," he replied, "I was asked not to name the
party that I bought it from. It seems a pity to part with _h_eir-looms,
but--it happens sometimes--I bought several things together of a family
quite lately. The _portières_ have only come out of the workroom this
morning. We hurried on with them to stop them fraying more--you see
where they were before, they must have been nailed to the wall."

Janet Miles, who was something of a connoisseur, had been examining the
tapestry.

"It is well worth what he asks," she said, in a low voice. "You don't
often come across such tapestry in England."

So the bargain was struck, and Hunter promised to see all that we had
chosen, both purchased and hired, delivered at Finster the week before
we proposed to come.

Nothing interfered with our plans. By the end of the month we found
ourselves at our temporary home--all of us except Nat, our third
brother, who was at school. Dormer, the small boy, still did lessons
with Sophy's governess. The two older "boys," as we called them,
happened to be at home from different reasons--one, Nugent, on leave
from India; Phil, forced to miss a term at college through an attack
of the same illness which had treated mother and Dormy so badly.

But now that everybody was well again, and going to be very much better,
thanks to Finster air, we thought the ill wind had brought us some very
distinct good. It would not have been half such fun had we not been a
large family party to start with, and before we had been a week at the
place we had added to our numbers by the first detachment of the guests
we had invited.

It was not a very large house; besides ourselves we had not room for
more than three or four others. For some of the rooms--those on the top
story--were really too dilapidated to suit any one but rats--"rats or
ghosts," said some one laughingly one day, when we had been exploring
them.

Afterwards the words returned to my memory.

We had made ourselves very comfortable, thanks to the invaluable Hunter.
And every day the weather grew milder and more spring-like. The woods on
the inland side were full of primroses. It promised to be a lovely
season.

There was a gallery along one side of the house, which soon became a
favourite resort; it made a pleasant lounging-place, in the day-time
especially, though less so in the evening, as the fireplace at one end
warmed it but imperfectly, and besides this it was difficult to light
up. It was draughty, too, as there was a superfluity of doors, two of
which, one at each end, we at once condemned. They were not needed, as
the one led by a very long spiral staircase, to the unused attic rooms,
the other to the kitchen and offices. And when we did have afternoon
tea in the gallery, it was easy to bring it through the dining or
drawing-rooms, long rooms, lighted at their extreme ends, which ran
parallel to the gallery lengthways, both of which had a door opening on
to it as well as from the hall on the other side. For all the principal
rooms at Finster were on the first-floor, not on the ground-floor.

The closing of these doors got rid of a great deal of draught, and, as I
have said, the weather was really mild and calm.

One afternoon--I am trying to begin at the beginning of our strange
experiences; even at the risk of long-windedness it seems better to do
so--we were all assembled in the gallery at tea-time. The "children,"
as we called Sophy and Dormer, much to Sophy's disgust, and their
governess, were with us, for rules were relaxed at Finster, and Miss
Larpent was a great favourite with us all.

Suddenly Sophy gave an exclamation of annoyance.

"Mamma," she said, "I wish you would speak to Dormer. He has thrown
over my tea-cup--only look at my frock!" "If you cannot sit still," she
added, turning herself to the boy, "I don't think you should be allowed
to come to tea here."

"What is the matter, Dormy?" said mother.

Dormer was standing beside Sophy, looking very guilty, and rather white.

"Mamma," he said, "I was only drawing a chair out. It got so dreadfully
cold where I was sitting, I really could not stay there," and he
shivered slightly.

He had been sitting with his back to one of the locked-up doors. Phil,
who was nearest, moved his hand slowly across the spot.

"You are fanciful, Dormy," he said, "there is really no draught
whatever."

This did not satisfy mother.

"He must have got a chill, then," she said, and she went on to question
the child as to what he had been doing all day, for, as I have said, he
was still delicate.

But he persisted that he was quite well, and no longer cold.

"It wasn't exactly a draught," he said, "it was--oh! just icy, all of a
sudden. I've felt it before--sitting in that chair."

Mother said no more, and Dormer went on with his tea, and when bed-time
came he seemed just as usual, so that her anxiety faded. But she made
thorough investigation as to the possibility of any draught coming up
from the back stairs, with which this door communicated. None was to be
discovered--the door fitted fairly well, and beside this, Hunter had
tacked felt round the edges--furthermore, one of the thick heavy
_portières_ had been hung in front.

An evening or two later we were sitting in the drawing room after
dinner, when a cousin who was staying with us suddenly missed her fan.

"Run and fetch Muriel's fan, Dormy," I said, for Muriel felt sure it had
slipped under the dinner table. None of the men had as yet joined us.

"Why, where are you going, child?" as he turned towards the farther
door. "It is much quicker by the gallery."

He said nothing, but went out, walking rather slowly, by the gallery
door. And in a few minutes he returned, fan in hand, but by the _other_
door.

He was a sensitive child, and though I wondered what he had got into his
head against the gallery, I did not say anything before the others. But
when, soon after, Dormy said "Good night," and went off to bed, I
followed him.

"What do you want, Leila?" he said rather crossly.

"Don't be vexed, child," I said. "I can see there is something the
matter. Why do you not like the gallery?"

He hesitated, but I had laid my hand on his shoulder, and he knew I
meant to be kind.

"Leila," he said, with a glance round, to be sure that no one was within
hearing--we were standing, he and I, near the inner dining-room door,
which was open--"you'll laugh at me, but--there's something queer
there--sometimes!"

"What? And how do you mean 'sometimes'?" I asked, with a slight thrill
at his tone.

"I mean not always, I've felt it several times--there was the cold the
day before yesterday, and besides that, I've felt a--a sort of
_breaving_"--Dormy was not perfect in his "th's"--"like somebody very
unhappy."

"Sighing?" I suggested.

"Like sighing in a whisper," he replied, "and that's always near the
door. But last week--no, not so long ago, it was on Monday--I went round
that way when I was going to bed. I didn't want to be silly. But it was
moonlight--and--Leila, a shadow went all along the wall on that side,
and stopped at the door. I saw it waggling about--its _hands_," and here
he shivered--"on that funny curtain that hangs up, as if it were feeling
for a minute or two, and then----"

"Well,--what then?"

"It just went out," he said simply. "But it's moonlight again to-night,
sister, and I daren't see it again. I just _daren't_."

"But you did go to the dining-room that way," I reminded him.

"Yes, but I shut my eyes and ran, and even then I felt as if something
cold was behind me."

"Dormy, dear," I said, a good deal concerned, "I do think it's your
fancy. You are not _quite_ well yet, you know."

"Yes, I am," he replied sturdily. "I'm not a bit frightened anywhere
else. I sleep in a room alone you know. It's not _me_, sister, its
somefing in the gallery."

"Would you be frightened to go there with me now? We can run through the
dining-room; there's no one to see us," and I turned in that direction
as I spoke.

Again my little brother hesitated.

"I'll go with you if you'll hold hands," he said, "but I'll shut my
eyes. And I won't open them till you tell me there's no shadow on the
wall. You must tell me truly."

"But there must be some shadows," I said, "in this bright moonlight,
trees and branches, or even clouds scudding across--something of that
kind is what you must have seen, dear."

He shook his head.

"No, no, of course I wouldn't mind that. I know the difference. No--you
couldn't mistake. It goes along, right along, in a creeping way, and
then at the door its hands come farther out, and it _feels_."

"Is it like a man or a woman?" I said, beginning to feel rather creepy
myself.

"I think it's most like a rather little man," he replied, "but I'm not
sure. Its head has got something fuzzy about it--oh, I know, like a
sticking out wig. But lower down it seems wrapped up, like in a cloak.
Oh, it's _horrid_."

And again he shivered--it was quite time all this nightmare nonsense was
put out of his poor little head.

I took his hand and held it firmly; we went through the dining-room.
Nothing could have looked more comfortable and less ghostly. For the
lights were still burning on the table, and the flowers in their silver
bowls, some wine gleaming in the glasses, the fruit and pretty dishes,
made a pleasant glow of colour. It certainly seemed a curiously sudden
contrast when we found ourselves in the gallery beyond, cold and
unillumined, save by the pale moonlight streaming through the
unshuttered windows. For the door closed with a bang as we passed
through--the gallery _was_ a draughty place.

Dormy's hold tightened.

"Sister," he whispered, "I've shut my eyes now. You must stand with
your back to the windows--between them, or else you'll think it's our
own shadows--and watch."

I did as he said, and I had not long to wait.

It came--from the farther end, the second condemned door, whence the
winding stair mounted to the attics--it seemed to begin or at least
take form there. Creeping along, just as Dormy said--stealthily but
steadily--right down to the other extremity of the long room. And then
it grew blacker--more concentrated--and out from the vague outline came
two bony hands, and, as the child had said, too, you could see that they
were _feeling_--all over the upper part of the door.

I stood and watched. I wondered afterwards at my own courage, if courage
it was. It was the shadow of a small man, I felt sure. The head seemed
large in proportion, and--yes--it--the original of the shadow--was
evidently covered by an antique wig. Half mechanically I glanced
round--as if in search of the material body that _must_ be there. But
no; there was nothing, literally _nothing_, that could throw this
extraordinary shadow.

Of this I was instantly convinced; and here I may as well say once
for all, that never was it maintained by any one, however previously
sceptical, who had fully witnessed the whole, that it could be accounted
for by ordinary, or, as people say, "natural" causes. There was this
peculiarity at least about our ghost.

Though I had fast hold of his hand, I had almost forgotten Dormy--I
seemed in a trance.

Suddenly he spoke, though in a whisper.

"You see it, sister, I know you do," he said.

"Wait, wait a minute, dear," I managed to reply in the same tone, though
I could not have explained why I waited.

Dormer had said that after a time--after the ghastly and apparently
fruitless _feeling_ all over the door--"it"--"went out".

I think it was this that I was waiting for. It was not quite as he had
said. The door was in the extreme corner of the wall, the hinges almost
in the angle, and as the shadow began to move on again, it _looked_ as
if it disappeared; but no, it was only fainter. My eyes, preternaturally
sharpened by my intense gaze, still saw it, working its way round the
corner, as assuredly no _shadow_ in the real sense of the word ever did
nor could do. I realised this, and the sense of horror grew all but
intolerable; yet I stood still, clasping the cold little hand in mine
tighter and tighter. And an instinct of protection of the child gave me
strength. Besides, it was coming on so quickly--we could not have
escaped--it was coming, nay, it _was behind_ us.

"Leila!" gasped Dormy, "the cold--you feel it now?"

Yes, truly--like no icy breath that I had ever felt before was that
momentary but horrible thrill of utter cold. If it had lasted another
second I think it would have killed us both. But, mercifully, it passed,
in far less time than it has taken me to tell it, and then we seemed in
some strange way to be released.

"Open your eyes, Dormy," I said, "you won't see anything, I promise you.
I want to rush across to the dining-room."

He obeyed me. I felt there was time to escape before that awful presence
would again have arrived at the dining-room door, though it was
_coming_--ah, yes, it was coming, steadily pursuing its ghastly round.
And, alas! the dining-room door was closed. But I kept my nerve to some
extent. I turned the handle without over much trembling, and in another
moment, the door shut and locked behind us, we stood in safety, looking
at each other, in the bright cheerful room we had left so short a time
ago.

_Was_ it so short a time? I said to myself. It seemed hours!

And through the door open to the hall came at that moment the sound
of cheerful laughing voices from the drawing-room. Some one was coming
out. It seemed impossible, incredible, that within a few feet of the
matter-of-fact pleasant material life, this horrible inexplicable drama
should be going on, as doubtless it still was.

Of the two I was now more upset than my little brother. I was older and
"took in" more. He, boy-like, was in a sense triumphant at having proved
himself correct and no coward, and though he was still pale, his eyes
shone with excitement and a queer kind of satisfaction.

But before we had done more than look at each other, a figure appeared
at the open doorway. It was Sophy.

"Leila," she said, "mamma wants to know what you are doing with Dormy?
He is to go to bed at once. We saw you go out of the room after him,
and then a door banged. Mamma says if you are playing with him it's very
bad for him so late at night."

Dormy was very quick. He was still holding my hand, and he pinched it to
stop my replying.

"Rubbish!" he said. "I am speaking to Leila quietly, and she is coming
up to my room while I undress. Good night, Sophy."

"Tell mamma Dormy really wants me," I added, and then Sophy departed.

"We musn't tell _her_, Leila," said the boy. "She'd have 'sterics."

"Whom shall we tell?" I said, for I was beginning to feel very helpless
and upset.

"Nobody, to-night," he replied sensibly. "You _mustn't_ go in there,"
and he shivered a little as he moved his head towards the gallery;
"you're not fit for it, and they'd be wanting you to. Wait till the
morning and then I'd--I think I'd tell Philip first. You needn't be
frightened to-night, sister. It won't stop you sleeping. It didn't me
the time I saw it before."

He was right. I slept dreamlessly. It was as if the intense nervous
strain of those few minutes had utterly exhausted me.

PART II.

Phil is our soldier brother. And there is nothing fanciful about _him_!
He is a rock of sturdy common-sense and unfailing good nature. He was
the very best person to confide our strange secret to, and my respect
for Dormy increased.

We did tell him--the very next morning. He listened very attentively,
only putting in a question here and there, and though, of course, he was
incredulous--had I not been so myself?--he was not mocking.

"I am glad you have told no one else," he said, when we had related the
whole as circumstantially as possible. "You see mother is not very
strong yet, and it would be a pity to bother father, just when he's
taken this place and settled it all. And for goodness' sake, don't let a
breath of it get about among the servants; there'd be the--something to
pay, if you did."

"I won't tell anybody," said Dormy.

"Nor shall I," I added. "Sophy is far too excitable, and if she knew,
she would certainly tell Nannie." Nannie is our old nurse.

"If we tell any one," Philip went on, "that means," with a rather
irritating smile of self-confidence, "if by any possibility I do not
succeed in making an end of your ghost and we want another opinion about
it, the person to tell would be Miss Larpent."

"Yes," I said, "I think so, too."

I would not risk irritating him by saying how convinced I was that
conviction awaited _him_ as surely it had come to myself, and I knew
that Miss Larpent, though far from credulous, was equally far from
stupid scepticism concerning the mysteries "not dreamt of" in ordinary
"philosophy".

"What do you mean to do?" I went on. "You have a theory, I see. Won't
you tell me what it is?"

"I have two," said Phil, rolling up a cigarette as he spoke. "It is
either some queer optical illusion, partly the effect of some odd
reflection outside--or it is a clever trick."

"A trick!" I exclaimed; "what _possible_ motive could there be for a
trick?"

Phil shook his head.

"Ah," he said, "that I cannot at present say."

"And what are you going to do?"

"I shall sit up to-night in the gallery and see for myself."

"Alone?" I exclaimed, with some misgiving. For big, sturdy fellow as he
was, I scarcely liked to think of him--of _any one_--alone with that
awful thing.

"I don't suppose you or Dormy would care to keep me company," he
replied, "and on the whole I would rather not have you."

"I wouldn't do it," said the child honestly, "not for--for nothing."

"I shall keep Tim with me," said Philip, "I would rather have him than
any one."

Tim is Phil's bull-dog, and certainly, I agreed, much better than
nobody.

So it was settled.

Dormy and I went to bed unusually early that night, for as the day wore
on we both felt exceedingly tired. I pleaded a headache, which was not
altogether a fiction, though I repented having complained at all when I
found that poor mamma immediately began worrying herself with fears
that "after all" I, too, was to fall a victim to the influenza.

"I shall be all right in the morning," I assured her.

I knew no further details of Phil's arrangements. I fell asleep almost
at once. I usually do. And it seemed to me that I had slept a whole
night when I was awakened by a glimmering light at my door, and heard
Philip's voice speaking softly.

"Are you awake, Lel?" he said, as people always say when they awake you
in any untimely way. Of course, _now_ I was awake, very much awake
indeed.

"What is it?" I exclaimed eagerly, my heart beginning to beat very fast.

"Oh, nothing, nothing at all," said my brother, advancing a little into
the room. "I just thought I'd look in on my way to bed to reassure you.
I have seen _nothing_, absolutely nothing."

I do not know if I was relieved or disappointed.

"Was it moonlight?" I asked abruptly.

"No," he replied, "unluckily the moon did not come out at all, though
it is nearly at the full. I carried in a small lamp, which made things
less eerie. But I should have preferred the moon."

I glanced up at him. Was it the reflection of the candle he held, or did
he look paler than usual?

"And," I added suddenly, "did you _feel_ nothing?"

He hesitated.

"It--it was chilly, certainly," he said. "I fancy I must have dosed a
little, for I did feel pretty cold once or twice."

"Ah, indeed!" thought I to myself. "And how about Tim?"

Phil smiled, but not very successfully.

"Well," he said, "I must confess Tim did not altogether like it. He
started snarling, then he growled, and finished up with whining in a
decidedly unhappy way. He's rather upset--poor old chap!"

And then I saw that the dog was beside him--rubbing up close to Philip's
legs--a very dejected, reproachful Tim--all the starch taken out of him.

"Good-night, Phil," I said, turning round on my pillow. "I'm glad
you are satisfied. To-morrow morning you must tell me which of your
theories holds most water. Good-night, and many thanks."

He was going to say more, but my manner for the moment stopped him, and
he went off.

Poor old Phil!

We had it out the next morning. He and I alone. He was _not_ satisfied.
Far from it. In the bottom of his heart I believe it was a strange
yearning for a breath of human companionship, for the sound of a human
voice, that had made him look in on me the night before.

_For he had felt the cold passing him._

But he was very plucky.

"I'll sit up again to-night, Leila," he said.

"Not to-night," I objected. "This sort of adventure requires one to be
at one's best. If you take my advice you will go to bed early and have a
good stretch of sleep, so that you will be quite fresh by to-morrow.
There will be a moon for some nights still."

"Why do you keep harping on the moon?" said Phil rather crossly, for
him.

"Because--I have some idea that it is only in the moonlight that--that
anything is to be _seen_."

"Bosh!" said my brother politely--he was certainly rather
discomposed--"we are talking at cross-purposes. You are satisfied----"

"Far from satisfied," I interpolated.

"Well, convinced, whatever you like to call it--that the whole thing is
supernatural, whereas I am equally sure it is a trick; a clever trick I
allow, though I haven't yet got at the motive of it."

"You need your nerves to be at their best to discover a trick of this
kind, if a trick it be," I said quietly.

Philip had left his seat, and walked up and down the room; his way of
doing so gave me a feeling that he wanted to walk off some unusual
consciousness of irritability. I felt half provoked and half sorry for
him.

At that moment--we were alone in the drawing-room--the door opened, and
Miss Larpent came in.

"I cannot find Sophy," she said, peering about through her rather
short-sighted eyes, which, nevertheless, see a great deal sometimes; "do
you know where she is?"

"I saw her setting off somewhere with Nugent," said Philip, stopping
his quarter-deck exercise for a moment.

"Ah, then it is hopeless. I suppose I must resign myself to very
irregular ways for a little longer," Miss Larpent replied with a smile.

She is not young, and not good looking, but she is gifted with a
delightful way of smiling, and she is--well, the dearest and almost the
wisest of women.

She looked at Philip as he spoke. She had known us nearly since our
babyhood.

"Is there anything the matter?" she said suddenly. "You look fagged,
Leila, and Philip seems worried."

I glanced at Philip. He understood me.

"Yes," he replied, "I am irritated, and Leila is----" he hesitated.

"What?" asked Miss Larpent.

"Oh, I don't know--obstinate, I suppose. Sit down, Miss Larpent, and
hear our story. Leila, you can tell it."

I did so--first obtaining a promise of secrecy, and making Phil relate
his own experience.

Our new _confidante_ listened attentively, her face very grave. When
she had heard all, she said quietly, after a moment's silence:--

"It's very strange, very. Philip, if you will wait till to-morrow night,
and I quite agree with Leila that you had better do so, I will sit up
with you. I have pretty good nerves, and I have always wanted an
experience of that kind."

"Then you don't think it is a trick?" I said eagerly. I was like Dormer,
divided between my real underlying longing to explain the thing, and get
rid of the horror of it, and a half childish wish to prove that I had
not exaggerated its ghastliness.

"I will tell you that the day after to-morrow," she said. I could not
repress a little shiver as she spoke.

She _had_ good nerves, and she was extremely sensible.

But I almost blamed myself afterwards for having acquiesced in the plan.
For the effect on her was very great. They never told me exactly what
happened; "You _know_," said Miss Larpent. I imagine their experience
was almost precisely similar to Dormy's and mine, intensified, perhaps,
by the feeling of loneliness. For it was not till all the rest of
the family was in bed that this second vigil began. It was a bright
moonlight night--they had the whole thing complete.

It was impossible to throw off the effect; even in the daytime the four
of us who had seen and heard, shrank from the gallery, and made any
conceivable excuse for avoiding it.

But Phil, however convinced, behaved consistently. He examined the
closed door thoroughly, to detect any possible trickery. He explored
the attics, he went up and down the staircase leading to the offices,
till the servants must have thought he was going crazy. He found
_nothing_--no vaguest hint even as to why the gallery was chosen by the
ghostly shadow for its nightly round.

Strange to say, however, as the moon waned, our horror faded, so that we
almost began to hope the thing was at an end, and to trust that in time
we should forget about it. And we congratulated ourselves that we had
kept our own counsel and not disturbed any of the others--even father,
who would, no doubt, have hooted at the idea--by the baleful whisper
that our charming castle by the sea was haunted!

And the days passed by, growing into weeks. The second detachment of
our guests had left, and a third had just arrived, when one morning as I
was waiting at what we called "the sea-door" for some of the others to
join me in a walk along the sands, some one touched me on the shoulder.
It was Philip.

"Leila," he said, "I am not happy about Dormer. He is looking ill again,
and----"

"I thought he seemed so much stronger," I said, surprised and
distressed, "quite rosy, and so much merrier."

"So he was till a few days ago," said Philip. "But if you notice him
well you'll see that he's getting that white look again. And--I've got
it into my head--he is an extraordinarily sensitive child, that it has
something to do with the moon. It's getting on to the full."

For the moment I stupidly forgot the association.

"Really, Phil," I said, "you are too absurd! Do you actually--oh," as he
was beginning to interrupt me, and my face fell, I feel sure--"you don't
mean about the gallery."

"Yes, I do," he said.

"How? Has Dormy told you anything?" and a sort of sick feeling came
over me. "I had begun to hope," I went on, "that somehow it had gone;
that, perhaps, it only comes once a year at a certain season, or
possibly that newcomers see it at the first and not again. Oh, Phil,
we _can't_ stay here, however nice it is, if it is really haunted."

"Dormy hasn't said much," Philip replied. "He only told me he had _felt
the cold_ once or twice, 'since the moon came again,' he said. But I can
see the fear of more is upon him. And this determined me to speak to
you. I have to go to London for ten days or so, to see the doctors about
my leave, and a few other things. I don't like it for you and Miss
Larpent if--if this thing is to return--with no one else in your
confidence, especially on Dormy's account. Do you think we must tell
father before I go?"

I hesitated. For many reasons I was reluctant to do so. Father would be
exaggeratedly sceptical at first, and then, if he were convinced, as I
_knew_ he would be, he would go to the other extreme and insist upon
leaving Finster, and there would be a regular upset, trying for mother
and everybody concerned. And mother liked the place, and was looking so
much better!

"After all," I said, "it has not hurt any of us. Miss Larpent got
a shake, so did I. But it wasn't as great a shock to us as to you,
Phil, to have to believe in a ghost. And we can avoid the gallery
while you are away. No, except for Dormy, I would rather keep it to
ourselves--after all, we are not going to live here always. Yet it is so
nice, it seems such a pity."

It was such an exquisite morning; the air, faintly breathing of the sea,
was like elixir; the heights and shadows on the cliffs, thrown out by
the darker woods behind, were indeed, as Janet Miles had said,
"wonderful".

"Yes," Phil agreed, "it is an awful nuisance. But as for Dormy," he went
on, "supposing I get mother to let me take him with me? He'd be as jolly
as a sand-boy in London, and my old landlady would look after him like
anything if ever I had to be out late. And I'd let my doctor see
him--quietly, you know--he might give him a tonic or something."

I heartily approved of the idea. So did mamma when Phil broached
it--she, too, had thought her "baby" looking quite pale lately. A London
doctor's opinion would be such a satisfaction. So it was settled, and
the very next day the two set off. Dormer, in his "old-fashioned,"
reticent way, in the greatest delight, though only by one remark did the
brave little fellow hint at what was, no doubt, the principal cause of
his satisfaction.

"The moon will be long past the full when we come back," he said. "And
after that there'll only be one other time before we go, won't there,
Leila? We've only got this house for three months?"

"Yes," I said, "father only took it for three," though in my heart I
knew it was with the option of three more--six in all.

And Miss Larpent and I were left alone, not with the ghost, certainly,
but with our fateful knowledge of its unwelcome proximity.

We did not speak of it to each other, but we tacitly avoided the
gallery, even, as much as possible, in the daytime. I felt, and so, she
has since confessed, did she, that it would be impossible to endure
_that cold_ without betraying ourselves.

And I began to breathe more freely, trusting that the dread of the
shadow's possible return was really only due to the child's overwrought
nerves.

Till--one morning--my fool's paradise was abruptly destroyed.

Father came in late to breakfast--he had been for an early walk, he
said, to get rid of a headache. But he did not look altogether as if he
had succeeded in doing so.

"Leila," he said, as I was leaving the room after pouring out his
coffee--mamma was not yet allowed to get up early--"Leila, don't go. I
want to speak to you."

I stopped short, and turned towards the table. There was something very
odd about his manner. He is usually hearty and eager, almost impetuous
in his way of speaking.

"Leila," he began again, "you are a sensible girl, and your nerves are
strong, I fancy. Besides, you have not been ill like the others. Don't
speak of what I am going to tell you."

I nodded in assent; I could scarcely have spoken. My heart was beginning
to thump. Father would not have commended my nerves had he known it.

"Something odd and inexplicable happened last night," he went on.
"Nugent and I were sitting in the gallery. It was a mild night, and the
moon magnificent. We thought the gallery would be pleasanter than the
smoking-room, now that Phil and his pipes are away. Well--we were
sitting quietly. I had lighted my reading-lamp on the little table at
one end of the room, and Nugent was half lying in his chair, doing
nothing in particular except admiring the night, when all at once he
started violently with an exclamation, and, jumping up, came towards me.
Leila, his teeth were chattering, and he was _blue_ with cold. I was
very much alarmed--you know how ill he was at college. But in a moment
or two he recovered.

"'What on earth is the matter?' I said to him. He tried to laugh.

"'I really don't know,' he said; 'I felt as if I had had an electric
shock of _cold_--but I'm all right again now.'

"I went into the dining-room, and made him take a little brandy and
water, and sent him off to bed. Then I came back, still feeling rather
uneasy about him, and sat down with my book, when, Leila--you will
scarcely credit it--I myself felt the same shock exactly. A perfectly
_hideous_ thrill of cold. That was how it began. I started up, and then,
Leila, by degrees, in some instinctive way, I seemed to realise what had
caused it. My dear child, you will think I have gone crazy when I tell
you that there was a shadow--a shadow in the moonlight--_chasing_ me,
so to say, round the room, and once again it caught me up, and again
came that appalling sensation. I would not give in. I dodged it after
that, and set myself to watch it, and then----"

I need not quote my father further; suffice to say his experience
matched that of the rest of us entirely--no, I think it surpassed them.
It was the worst of all.

Poor father! I shuddered for him. I think a shock of that kind is harder
upon a man than upon a woman. Our sex is less sceptical, less entrenched
in sturdy matters of fact, more imaginative, or whatever you like to
call the readiness to believe what we cannot explain. And it was
astounding to me to see how my father at once capitulated--never even
_alluding_ to a possibility of trickery. Astounding, yet at the same
time not without a certain satisfaction in it. It was almost a relief to
find others in the same boat with ourselves.

I told him at once all _we_ had to tell, and how painfully exercised we
had been as to the advisability of keeping our secret to ourselves. I
never saw father so impressed; he was awfully kind, too, and so sorry
for us. He made me fetch Miss Larpent, and we held a council of--I
don't know what to call it!--not "war," assuredly, for none of us
thought of fighting the ghost. How could one fight a shadow?

We decided to do nothing beyond endeavouring to keep the affair from
going further. During the next few days father arranged to have some
work done in the gallery which would prevent our sitting there, without
raising any suspicions on mamma's or Sophy's part.

"And then," said father, "we must see. Possibly this extraordinary
influence only makes itself felt periodically."

"I am almost certain it is so," said Miss Larpent.

"And in this case," he continued, "we may manage to evade it. But I do
not feel disposed to continue my tenancy here after three months are
over. If once the servants get hold of the story, and they are sure to
do so sooner or later, it would be unendurable--the worry and annoyance
would do your mother far more harm than any good effect the air and
change have had upon her."

I was glad to hear this decision. Honestly, I did not feel as if I
could stand the strain for long, and it might kill poor little Dormy.

But where should we go? Our own home would be quite uninhabitable till
the autumn, for extensive alterations and repairs were going on there. I
said this to father.

"Yes," he agreed, "it is not convenient,"--and he hesitated. "I cannot
make it out," he went on, "Miles would have been _sure_ to know if the
house had a bad name in any way. I think I will go over and see him
to-day, and tell him all about it--at least I shall inquire about some
other house in the neighbourhood--and _perhaps_ I will tell him our
reason for leaving this."

He did so--he went over to Raxtrew that very afternoon, and, as I quite
anticipated would be the case, he told me on his return that he had
taken both our friends into his confidence.

"They are extremely concerned about it," he said, "and very
sympathising, though, naturally, inclined to think us a parcel of very
weak-minded folk indeed. But I am glad of one thing--the Rectory there,
is to be let from the first of July for three months. Miles took me to
see it. I think it will do very well--it is quite out of the village,
for you really can't call it a town--and a nice little place in its way.
Quite modern, and as unghost-like as you could wish, bright and cheery."

"And what will mamma think of our leaving so soon?" I asked.

But as to this father reassured me. He had already spoken of it to her,
and somehow she did not seem disappointed. She had got it into her head
that Finster did not suit Dormy, and was quite disposed to think that
three months of such strong air were enough at a time.

"Then have you decided upon Raxtrew Rectory?" I asked.

"I have the refusal of it," said my father. "But you will be almost
amused to hear that Miles begged me not to fix absolutely for a few
days. He is coming to us to-morrow, to spend the night."

"You mean to see for himself?"

Father nodded.

"Poor Mr. Miles!" I ejaculated. "You won't sit up with him, I hope,
father?"

"I offered to do so, but he won't hear of it," was the reply. "He is
bringing one of his keepers with him--a sturdy, trustworthy young
fellow, and they two with their revolvers are going to nab the ghost, so
he says. We shall see. We must manage to prevent our servants suspecting
anything."

This _was_ managed. I need not go into particulars. Suffice to say that
the sturdy keeper reached his own home before dawn on the night of the
vigil, no endeavours of his master having succeeded in persuading him to
stay another moment at Finster, and that Mr. Miles himself looked so ill
the next morning when he joined us at the breakfast-table that we, the
initiated, could scarcely repress our exclamations, when Sophy, with the
curious instinct of touching a sore place which some people have, told
him that he looked exactly "as if he had seen a ghost".

His experience had been precisely similar to ours. After that we heard
no more from him--about the pity it was to leave a place that suited us
so well, etc., etc. On the contrary, before he left, he told my father
and myself that he thought us uncommonly plucky for staying out the
three months, though at the same time he confessed to feeling completely
nonplussed.

"I have lived near Finster St. Mabyn's all my life," he said, "and
my people before me, and _never_, do I honestly assure you, have
I heard one breath of the old place being haunted. And in a shut-up
neighbourhood like this, such a thing would have leaked out."

We shook our heads, but what could we say?

PART III.

We left Finster St. Mabyn's towards the middle of July.

Nothing worth recording happened during the last few weeks. If
the ghostly drama were still re-enacted night after night, or only
during some portion of each month, we took care not to assist at the
performance. I believe Phil and Nugent planned another vigil, but gave
it up by my father's expressed wish, and on one pretext or another he
managed to keep the gallery locked off without arousing any suspicion in
my mother or Sophy, or any of our visitors.

It was a cold summer,--those early months of it at least--and that made
it easier to avoid the room.

Somehow none of us were sorry to go. This was natural, so far as
several were concerned, but rather curious as regarded those of the
family who knew no drawback to the charms of the place. I suppose it was
due to some instinctive consciousness of the influence which so many of
the party had felt it impossible to resist or explain.

And the Rectory at Raxtrew was really a dear little place. It was so
bright and open and sunny. Dormy's pale face was rosy with pleasure the
first afternoon when he came rushing in to tell us that there were tame
rabbits and a pair of guinea-pigs in an otherwise empty loose box in the
stable-yard.

"Do come and look at them," he begged, and I went with him, pleased to
see him so happy.

I did not care for the rabbits, but I always think guinea-pigs rather
fascinating, and we stayed playing with them some little time.

"I'll show you another way back into the house," said Dormy, and he led
me through a conservatory into a large, almost unfurnished room, opening
again into a tiled passage leading to the offices.

"This is the Warden boys' playroom," he said. "They keep their cricket
and football things here, you see, and their tricycle. I wonder if I
might use it?"

"We must write and ask them," I said. "But what are all these big
packages?" I went on. "Oh, I see, its our heavy luggage from Finster.
There is not room in this house for our odds and ends of furniture, I
suppose. It's rather a pity they have put it in here, for we could have
had some nice games in this big room on a wet day, and see, Dormy, here
are several pairs of roller skates! Oh, we must have this place
cleared."

We spoke to father about it--he came and looked at the room and agreed
with us that it would be a pity not to have the full use of it. Roller
skating would be good exercise for Dormy, he said, and even for Nat, who
would be joining us before long for his holidays.

So our big cases, and the chairs and tables we had bought from Hunter,
in their careful swathings of wisps and matting, were carried out to an
empty barn--a perfectly dry and weather-tight barn--for everything at
the Rectory was in excellent repair. In this, as in all other details,
our new quarters were a complete contrast to the picturesque abode we
had just quitted.

The weather was charming for the first two or three weeks--much warmer
and sunnier than at Finster. We all enjoyed it, and seemed to breathe
more freely. Miss Larpent, who was staying through the holidays this
year, and I congratulated each other more than once, when sure of not
being overheard, on the cheerful, wholesome atmosphere in which we found
ourselves.

"I do not think I shall ever wish to live in a very old house again,"
she said one day. We were in the play-room, and I had been persuading
her to try her hand--or feet--at roller skating. "Even now," she went
on, "I own to you, Leila, though it may sound very weak-minded, I cannot
think of that horrible night without a shiver. Indeed, I could fancy I
feel that thrill of indescribable cold at the present moment."

She _was_ shivering--and, extraordinary to relate, as she spoke, her
tremor communicated itself to me. Again, I could swear to it, again I
felt that blast of unutterable, unearthly cold.

I started up. We were seated on a bench against the wall--a bench
belonging to the play-room, and which we had not thought of removing, as
a few seats were a convenience.

Miss Larpent caught sight of my face. Her own, which was very white,
grew distressed in expression. She grasped my arm.

"My dearest child," she exclaimed, "you look blue, and your teeth are
chattering! I do wish I had not alluded to that fright we had. I had no
idea you were so nervous."

"I did not know it myself," I replied. "I often think of the Finster
ghost quite calmly, even in the middle of the night. But just then, Miss
Larpent, do you know, I really _felt_ that horrid cold again!"

"So did I--or rather my imagination did," she replied, trying to talk in
a matter-of-fact way. She got up as she spoke, and went to the window.
"It can't be _all_ imagination," she added. "See, Leila, what a gusty,
stormy day it is--not like the beginning of August. It really is cold."

"And this play-room seems nearly as draughty as the gallery at Finster,"
I said. "Don't let us stay here--come into the drawing-room and play
some duets. I wish we could quite forget about Finster."

"Dormy has done so, I hope," said Miss Larpent.

That chilly morning was the commencement of the real break-up in the
weather. We women would not have minded it so much, as there are always
plenty of indoor things we can find to do. And my two grown-up brothers
were away. Raxtrew held no particular attractions for them, and Phil
wanted to see some of our numerous relations before he returned to
India. So he and Nugent started on a round of visits. But, unluckily,
it was the beginning of the public school holidays, and poor Nat--the
fifteen-year-old boy--had just joined us. It was very disappointing
for him in more ways than one. He had set his heart on seeing Finster,
impressed by our enthusiastic description of it when we first went
there, and now his anticipations had to come down to a comparatively
tame and uninteresting village, and every probability--so said the
wise--of a stretch of rainy, unsummerlike weather.

Nat is a good-natured, cheery fellow, however--not nearly as clever or
as impressionable as Dormy, but with the same common sense. So he wisely
determined to make the best of things, and as we were really sorry for
him, he did not, after all, come off very badly.

His principal amusement was roller-skating in the play-room. Dormy had
not taken to it in the same way--the greater part of _his_ time was
spent with the rabbits and guinea-pigs, where Nat, when he himself had
had skating enough, was pretty sure to find him.

I suppose it is with being the eldest sister that it always seems my
fate to receive the confidences of the rest of the family, and it was
about this time, a fortnight or so after his arrival, that it began to
strike me that Nat looked as if he had something on his mind.

"He is sure to tell me what it is, sooner or later," I said to myself.
"Probably he has left some small debts behind him at school--only he did
not look worried or anxious when he first came home."

The confidence was given. One afternoon Nat followed me into the
library, where I was going to write some letters, and said he wanted to
speak to me. I put my paper aside and waited.

"Leila," he began, "you must promise not to laugh at me."

This was not what I expected.

"Laugh at you--no, certainly not," I replied, "especially if you are in
any trouble. And I have thought you were looking worried, Nat."

"Well, yes," he said, "I don't know if there is anything coming over
me--I feel quite well, but--Leila," he broke off, "do you believe in
ghosts?"

I started.

"Has any one----" I was beginning rashly, but the boy interrupted me.

"No, no," he said eagerly, "no one has put anything of the kind into my
head--no one. It is my own senses that have seen--felt it--or else, if
it is fancy, I must be going out of my mind, Leila--I do believe there
is a ghost here _in the play-room_."

I sat silent, an awful dread creeping over me, which, as he went on,
grew worse and worse. Had the thing--the Finster shadow--attached itself
to us--I had read of such cases--had it journeyed with us to this
peaceful, healthful house? The remembrance of the cold thrill
experienced by Miss Larpent and myself flashed back upon me. And Nat
went on.

Yes, the cold was the first thing he had been startled by, followed,
just as in the gallery of our old castle, by the consciousness of the
terrible shadow-like presence, gradually taking form in the moonlight.
For there had been moonlight the last night or two, and Nat, in his
skating ardour, had amused himself alone in the play-room after Dormy
had gone to bed.

"The night before last was the worst," he said. "It stopped raining,
you remember, Leila, and the moon was very bright--I noticed how it
glistened on the wet leaves outside. It was by the moonlight I saw
the--the shadow. I wouldn't have thought of skating in the evening but
for the light, for we've never had a lamp in there. It came round the
walls, Leila, and then it seemed to stop and fumble away in one
corner--at the end where there is a bench, you know."

Indeed I did know; it was where our governess and I had been sitting.

"I got so awfully frightened," said Nat honestly, "that I ran off. Then
yesterday I was ashamed of myself, and went back there in the evening
with a candle. But I saw nothing: the moon did not come out. Only--I
felt the cold again. I believe it was there--though I could not see it.
Leila, what _can_ it be? If only I could make you understand! It is so
_much_ worse than it sounds to tell."

I said what I could to soothe him. I spoke of odd shadows thrown by the
trees outside swaying in the wind, for the weather was still stormy. I
repeated the time-worn argument about optical illusions, etc., etc.,
and in the end he gave in a little. It _might_ have been his fancy.
And he promised me most faithfully to breathe no hint--not the very
faintest--of the fright he had had, to Sophy or Dormy, or any one.

Then I had to tell my father. I really shrank from doing so, but there
seemed no alternative. At first, of course, he pooh-poohed it at once by
saying Dormy must have been talking to Nat about the Finster business,
or if not Dormy, _some one_--Miss Larpent even! But when all such
explanations were entirely set at nought, I must say poor father looked
rather blank. I was sorry for him, and sorry for myself--the idea of
being _followed_ by this horrible presence was too sickening.

Father took refuge at last in some brain-wave theory--involuntary
impressions had been made on Nat by all of us, whose minds were still
full of the strange experience. He said he felt sure, and no doubt he
tried to think he did, that this theory explained the whole. I felt glad
for him to get any satisfaction out of it, and I did my best to take it
up too. But it was no use. I felt that Nat's experience had been an
"objective" one, as Miss Larpent expressed it--or, as Dormy had said at
the first at Finster: "No, no, sister--it's something _there_--it's
nothing to do with _me_."

And earnestly I longed for the time to come for our return to our own
familiar home.

"I don't think I shall ever wish to leave it again," I thought.

But after a week or two the feeling began to fade again. And father very
sensibly discovered that it would not do to leave our spare furniture
and heavy luggage in the barn--it was getting all dusty and cobwebby. So
it was all moved back again to the play-room, and stacked as it had been
at first, making it impossible for us to skate or amuse ourselves in any
way there, at which Sophy grumbled, but Nat did not.

Father was very good to Nat. He took him about with him as much as he
could to get the thought of that horrid thing out of his head. But yet
it could not have been half as bad for Nat as for the rest of us, for
we took the greatest possible precautions against any whisper of the
dreadful and mysterious truth reaching him, that the ghost had _followed
us_ from Finster.

Father did not tell Mr. Miles or Jenny about it. They had been worried
enough, poor things, by the trouble at Finster, and it would be too bad
for them to think that the strange influence was affecting us in the
_second_ house we had taken at their recommendation.

"In fact," said father with a rather rueful smile, "if we don't take
care, we shall begin to be looked upon askance as a haunted family! Our
lives would have been in danger in the good old witchcraft days."

"It is really a mercy that none of the servants have got hold of the
story," said Miss Larpent, who was one of our council of three. "We must
just hope that no further annoyance will befall us till we are safe at
home again."

Her hopes were fulfilled. Nothing else happened while we remained at the
Rectory--it really seemed as if the unhappy shade was limited locally,
in one sense. For at Finster, even, it had never been seen or felt save
in the one room.

The vividness of the impression of poor Nat's experience had almost died
away when the time came for us to leave. I felt now that I should rather
enjoy telling Phil and Nugent about it, and hearing what _they_ could
bring forward in the way of explanation.

We left Raxtrew early in October. Our two big brothers were awaiting us
at home, having arrived there a few days before us. Nugent was due at
Oxford very shortly.

It was very nice to be in our own house again, after several months'
absence, and it was most interesting to see how the alterations,
including a good deal of new papering and painting, had been carried
out. And as soon as the heavy luggage arrived we had grand consultations
as to the disposal about the rooms of the charming pieces of furniture
we had picked up at Hunter's. Our rooms are large and nicely shaped,
most of them. It was not difficult to make a pretty corner here and
there with a quaint old chair or two and a delicate spindle-legged
table, and when we had arranged them all--Phil, Nugent, and I, were the
movers--we summoned mother and Miss Larpent to give their opinion.

They quite approved, mother even saying that she would be glad of a few
more odds and ends.

"We might empower Janet Miles," she said, "to let us know if she sees
anything very tempting. Is that really all we have? They looked so much
more important in their swathings."

The same idea struck me. I glanced round.

"Yes," I said, "that's all, except--oh, yes, there are the tapestry
"_portières_"--the best of all. We can't have them in the drawing-room,
I fear. It is too modern for them. Where shall we hang them?"

"You are forgetting, Leila," said mother. "We spoke of having them in
the hall. They will do beautifully to hang before the two side doors,
which are seldom opened. And in cold weather the hall is draughty,
though nothing like the gallery at Finster."

Why did she say that? It made me shiver, but then, of course, she did
not know.

Our hall is a very pleasant one. We sit there a great deal. The side
doors mother spoke of are second entrances to the dining-room and
library--quite unnecessary, except when we have a large party, a dance
or something of that sort. And the "_portières_" certainly seemed the
very thing, the mellow colouring of the tapestry showing to great
advantage. The boys--Phil and Nugent, I mean--set to work at once, and
in an hour or two the hangings were placed.

"Of course," said Philip, "if ever these doors are to be opened, this
precious tapestry must be taken down, or very carefully looped back. It
is very worn in some places, and in spite of the thick lining it should
be tenderly handled. I am afraid it has suffered a little from being so
long rolled up at the Rectory. It should have been hung up!"

Still, it looked very well indeed, and when father, who was away at some
magistrates' meeting, came home that afternoon, I showed him our
arrangements with pride.

He was very pleased.

"Very nice--very nice indeed," he said, though it was almost too dusk
for him to judge quite fully of the effect of the tapestry. "But, dear
me, child, this hall is very cold. We must have a larger fire. Only
October! What sort of a winter are we going to have?"

He shivered as he spoke. He was standing close to one of the
"_portières_"--smoothing the tapestry half absently with one hand. I
looked at him with concern.

"I _hope_ you have not got a chill, papa," I said.

But he seemed all right again when we went into the library, where tea
was waiting--an extra late tea for his benefit.

The next day Nugent went to Oxford. Nat had already returned to school.
So our home party was reduced to father and mother, Miss Larpent, Phil
and I, and the children.

We were very glad to have Phil settled at home for some time. There was
little fear of his being tempted away, now that the shooting had begun.
We were expecting some of our usual guests at this season; the weather
was perfect autumn weather; we had thrown off all remembrance of
influenza and other depressing "influences," and were feeling bright
and cheerful, when again--ah, yes, even now it gives me a faint, sick
sensation to recall the horror of that _third_ visitation!

But I must tell it simply, and not give way to painful remembrances.

It was the very day before our first visitors were expected that the
blow fell, the awful fear made itself felt. And, as before, the victim
was a new one--the one who, for reasons already mentioned, we had
specially guarded from any breath of the gruesome terror--poor little
Sophy!

What she was doing alone in the hall late that evening I cannot quite
recall--yes, I think I remember her saying she had run downstairs when
half-way up to bed, to fetch a book she had left there in the afternoon.
She had no light, and the one lamp in the hall--we never sat there after
dinner--was burning feebly. _It was bright moonlight._

I was sitting at the piano, where I had been playing in a rather sleepy
way--when a sudden touch on my shoulder made me start, and, looking up,
I saw my sister standing beside me, white and trembling.

"Leila," she whispered, "come with me quickly. I don't want mamma to
notice."

For mother was still nervous and delicate.

The drawing-room is very long, and has two or three doors. No-one else
was at our end. It was easy to make our way out unperceived. Sophy
caught my hand and hurried me upstairs without speaking till we reached
my own room, where a bright fire was burning cheerfully.

Then she began.

"Leila," she said, "I have had such an awful fright. I did not want to
speak until we were safe up here."

"What was it?" I exclaimed breathlessly. Did I already suspect the
truth? I really do not know, but my nerves were not what they had been.

Sophy gasped and began to tremble. I put my arm round her.

"It does not sound so bad," she said. "But--oh, Leila, what _could_ it
be? It was in the hall," and then I think she explained how she had come
to be there. "I was standing near the side door into the library that we
never use--and--all of a sudden a sort of darkness came along the wall,
and seemed to settle on the door--where the old tapestry is, you know.
I thought it was the shadow of something outside, for it was bright
moonlight, and the windows were not shuttered. But in a moment I saw it
could not be that--there is nothing to throw such a shadow. It seemed
to wriggle about--like--like a monstrous spider, or--" and there she
hesitated--"almost like a deformed sort of human being. And all at once,
Leila, my breath went and I fell down. I really did. I was _choked_ with
cold. I think my senses went away, but I am not sure. The next thing I
remember was rushing across the hall and then down the south corridor to
the drawing-room, and then I was so thankful to see you there by the
piano."

I drew her down on my knee, poor child.

"It was very good of you, dear," I said, "to control yourself, and not
startle mamma."

This pleased her, but her terror was still uppermost.

"Leila," she said piteously, "can't you explain it? I did so hope you
could."

What _could_ I say?

"I--one would need to go to the hall and look well about to see what
could cast such a shadow," I said vaguely, and I suppose I must
involuntarily have moved a little, for Sophy started, and clutched me
fast.

"Oh, Leila, don't go--you don't mean you are going now?" she entreated.

Nothing truly was farther from my thoughts, but I took care not to say
so.

"I won't leave you if you'd rather not," I said, "and I tell you what,
Sophy, if you would like very much to sleep here with me to-night, you
shall. I will ring and tell Freake to bring your things down and undress
you--on one condition."

"What?" she said eagerly. She was much impressed by my amiability.

"That you won't say _one word_ about this, or give the least shadow of a
hint to any one that you have had a fright. You don't know the trouble
it will cause."

"Of course I will promise to let no one know, if you think it better,
for you are so kind to me," said Sophy. But there was a touch of
reluctance in her tone. "You--you mean to do something about it though,
Leila," she went on. "I shall never be able to forget it if you don't."

"Yes," I said, "I shall speak to father and Phil about it to-morrow.
If any one has been trying to frighten us," I added unguardedly, "by
playing tricks, they certainly must be exposed."

"Not _us_," she corrected, "it was only me," and I did not reply. Why I
spoke of the possibility of a trick I scarcely know. I had no hope of
any such explanation.

But another strange, almost incredible idea was beginning to take shape
in my mind, and with it came a faint, very faint touch of relief. Could
it be not the _houses_, nor the _rooms_, nor, worst of all, we ourselves
that were haunted, but something or things among the old furniture we
had bought at Raxtrew?

And lying sleepless that night a sudden flash of illumination struck
me--could it--whatever the "it" was--could it have something to do with
the tapestry hangings?

The more I thought it over the more striking grew the coincidences. At
Finster it had been on one of the closed doors that the shadow seemed
to settle, as again here in our own hall. But in both cases the
"_portières_" had hung in front!

And at the Rectory? The tapestry, as Philip had remarked, had been there
rolled up all the time. Was it possible that it had never been taken out
to the barn at all? What _more_ probable than that it should have been
left, forgotten, under the bench where Miss Larpent and I had felt
for the second time that hideous cold? And, stay, something else was
returning to my mind in connection with that bench. Yes--I had it--Nat
had said "it seemed to stop and fumble away in one corner--at the end
where there is a bench, you know."

And then to my unutterable thankfulness at last I fell asleep.

PART IV.

I told Philip the next morning. There was no need to bespeak his
attention. I think he felt nearly as horrified as I had done myself at
the idea that our own hitherto bright, cheerful home was to be haunted
by this awful thing--influence or presence, call it what you will. And
the suggestions which I went on to make struck him, too, with a sense of
relief.

He sat in silence for some time after making me recapitulate as
precisely as possible every detail of Sophy's story.

"You are sure it was the door into the library?" he said at last.

"Quite sure," I replied; "and, oh, Philip," I went on, "it has just
occurred to me that _father_ felt a chill there the other evening."

For till that moment the little incident in question had escaped my
memory.

"Do you remember which of the "_portières_" hung in front of the door at
Finster?" said Philip.

I shook my head.

"Dormy would," I said, "he used to examine the pictures in the tapestry
with great interest. I should not know one from the other. There is an
old castle in the distance in each, and a lot of trees, and something
meant for a lake."

But in his turn Philip shook his head.

"No," he said, "I won't speak to Dormy about it if I can possibly help
it. Leave it to me, Leila, and try to put it out of your own mind as
much as you possibly can, and don't be surprised at anything you may
notice in the next few days. I will tell you, first of any one, whenever
I have anything to tell."

That was all I could get out of him. So I took his advice.

Luckily, as it turned out, Mr. Miles, the only outsider, so to say
(except the unfortunate keeper), who had witnessed the ghostly drama,
was one of the shooting party expected that day. And him Philip at
once determined to consult about this new and utterly unexpected
manifestation.

He did not tell me this. Indeed, it was not till fully a week later that
I heard anything, and then in a letter--a very long letter from my
brother, which, I think, will relate the sequel of our strange ghost
story better than any narration at second-hand, of my own.

Mr. Miles only stayed two nights with us. The very day after he
came he announced that, to his great regret, he was obliged--most
unexpectedly--to return to Raxtrew on important business.

"And," he continued, "I am afraid you will all feel much more vexed with
me when I tell you I am going to carry off Phil with me."

Father looked very blank indeed.

"Phil!" he exclaimed, "and how about our shooting?"

"You can easily replace us," said my brother, "I have thought of that,"
and he added something in a lower tone to father. He--Phil--was leaving
the room at the time. _I_ thought it had reference to the real reason of
his accompanying Mr. Miles, but I was mistaken. Father, however, said
nothing more in opposition to the plan, and the next morning the two
went off.

We happened to be standing at the hall door--several of us--for we were
a large party now--when Phil and his friend drove away. As we turned to
re-enter the house, I felt some one touch me. It was Sophy. She was
going out for a constitutional with Miss Larpent, but had stopped a
moment to speak to me.

"Leila," she said in a whisper, "why have they--did you know that the
tapestry had been taken down?"

She glanced at me with a peculiar expression. I had not observed it.
Now, looking up, I saw that the two locked doors were visible in the
dark polish of their old mahogany as of yore--no longer shrouded by the
ancient _portières_. I started in surprise.

"No," I whispered in return, "I did not know. Never mind, Sophy. I
suspect there is a reason for it which we shall know in good time."

I felt strongly tempted--the moon being still at the full--to visit the
hall that night--in hopes of feeling and seeing--_nothing_. But when
the time drew near, my courage failed; besides I had tacitly promised
Philip to think as little as I possibly could about the matter, and any
vigil of the kind would certainly not have been acting in accordance
with the spirit of his advice.

I think I will now copy, as it stands, the letter from Philip which I
received a week or so later. It was dated from his club in London.

  "MY DEAR LEILA,

     "I have a long story to tell you and a very extraordinary one. I
     think it is well that it should be put into writing, so I will
     devote this evening to the task--especially as I shall not be
     home for ten days or so.

     "You may have suspected that I took Miles into my confidence as
     soon as he arrived. If you did you were right. He was the best
     person to speak to for several reasons. He looked, I must say,
     rather--well 'blank' scarcely expresses it--when I told him of
     the ghost's re-appearance, not only at the Rectory, but in our
     own house, and on both occasions to persons--Nat, and then
     Sophy--who had not heard a breath of the story. But when I went
     on to propound your suggestion, Miles cheered up. He had been,
     I fancy, a trifle touchy about our calling Finster haunted,
     and it was evidently a satisfaction to him to start another
     theory. We talked it well over, and we decided to test the
     thing again--it took some resolution, I own, to do so. We sat
     up that night--bright moonlight luckily--and--well, I needn't
     repeat it all. Sophy was quite correct. It came again--the
     horrid creeping shadow--poor wretch, I'm rather sorry for it
     now--just in the old way--quite as much at home in ----shire,
     apparently, as in the Castle. It stopped at the closed library
     door, and fumbled away, then started off again--ugh! We watched
     it closely, but kept well in the middle of the room, so that
     the cold did not strike us so badly. We both noted the special
     part of the tapestry where its hands seemed to sprawl, and we
     meant to stay for another round; but--when it came to the point
     we funked it, and went to bed.

     "Next morning, on pretence of examining the date of
     the tapestry, we had it down--you were all out--and we
     found--_something_. Just where the hands felt about, there had
     been a cut--three cuts, three sides of a square, as it were,
     making a sort of door in the stuff, the fourth side having
     evidently acted as a hinge, for there was a mark where it had
     been folded back. And just where--treating the thing as a
     door--you might expect to find a handle to open it by, we found
     a distinct dint in the tapestry, as if a button or knob had
     once been there. We looked at each other. The same idea had
     struck us. The tapestry had been used to conceal a small door
     in the wall--the door of a secret cupboard probably. The
     ghostly fingers had been vainly seeking for the spring which in
     the days of their flesh and bone they had been accustomed to
     press.

     "'The first thing to do,' said Miles, 'is to look up Hunter and
     make him tell where he got the tapestry from. Then we shall
     see.'

     "'Shall we take the _portières_ with us?' I said.

     "But Miles shuddered, though he half laughed too.

     "'No, thank you,' he said. 'I'm not going to travel with the
     evil thing.'

     "'We can't hang it up again, though,' I said, 'after this last
     experience.'

     "In the end we rolled up the two _portières_, not to attract
     attention by only moving one, and--well, I thought it just
     possible the ghost might make a mistake, and I did not want
     any more scares while I was away--we rolled them up together,
     first carefully measuring the cut, and its position in the
     curtain, and then we hid them away in one of the lofts that no
     one ever enters, where they are at this moment, and where the
     ghost may have been disporting himself, for all I know, though
     I fancy he has given it up by this time, for reasons you shall
     hear.

     "Then Miles and I, as you know, set off for Raxtrew. I smoothed
     my father down about it, by reminding him how good-natured they
     had been to us, and telling him Miles really needed me. We went
     straight to Hunter. He hummed and hawed a good deal--he had
     not distinctly promised not to give the name of the place the
     tapestry had come from, but he knew the gentleman he had bought
     it from did not want it known.

     "'Why?' said Miles. 'Is it some family that has come down in
     the world, and is forced to part with things to get some ready
     money?'

     "'Oh, dear no!' said Hunter. 'It is not that, at all. It
     was only that--I suppose I must give you the name--Captain
     Devereux--did not want any gossip to get about, as to ----'

     "'Devereux!' repeated Miles, 'you don't mean the people at
     Hallinger?'

     "'The same,' said Hunter. 'If you know them, sir, you will be
     careful, I hope, to assure the captain that I did my best to
     carry out his wishes?'

     "'Certainly,' said Miles, 'I'll exonerate you.'

     "And then Hunter told us that Devereux, who only came into the
     Hallinger property a few years ago, had been much annoyed by
     stories getting about of the place being haunted, and this had
     led to his dismantling one wing, and--Hunter thought, but was
     not quite clear as to this--pulling down some rooms altogether.
     But he, Devereux, was very touchy on the subject--he did not
     want to be laughed at.

     "'And the tapestry came from him--you are certain as to that?'
     Miles repeated.

     "'Positive, sir. I took it down with my own hands. It was
     fitted on to two panels in what they call the round room at
     Hallinger--there were, oh, I daresay, a dozen of them, with
     tapestry nailed on, but I only bought these two pieces--the
     others were sold to a London dealer.'

     "'The round room,' I said. Leila, the expression struck me.

     "Miles, it appeared, knew Devereux fairly well. Hallinger is
     only ten miles off. We drove over there, but found he was in
     London. So our next move was to follow him there. We called
     twice at his club, and then Miles made an appointment, saying
     that he wanted to see him on private business.

     "He received us civilly, of course. He is quite a young
     fellow--in the Guards. But when Miles began to explain to him
     what we had come about, he stiffened.

     "'I suppose you belong to the Psychical Society?' he said. 'I
     can only repeat that I have nothing to tell, and I detest the
     whole subject.'

     "'Wait a moment,' said Miles, and as he went on I saw that
     Devereux changed. His face grew intent with interest and a
     queer sort of eagerness, and at last he started to his feet.

     "'Upon my soul,' he said, 'I believe you've run him to earth
     for me--the ghost, I mean, and if so, you shall have my endless
     gratitude. I'll go down to Hallinger with you at once--this
     afternoon, if you like, and see it out.'

     "He was so excited that he spoke almost incoherently, but after
     a bit he calmed down, and told us all he had to tell--and that
     was a good deal--which would indeed have been nuts for the
     Psychical Society. What Hunter had said was but a small part of
     the whole. It appeared that on succeeding to Hallinger, on the
     death of an uncle, young Devereux had made considerable changes
     in the house. He had, among others, opened out a small wing--a
     sort of round tower--which had been completely dismantled and
     bricked up for, I think he said, over a hundred years. There
     was some story about it. An ancestor of his--an awful
     gambler--had used the principal room in this wing for his
     orgies. Very queer things went on there, the finish up being
     the finding of old Devereux dead there one night, when his
     servants were summoned by the man he had been playing
     with--with whom he had had an awful quarrel. This man, a low
     fellow, probably a professional cardsharper, vowed that he had
     been robbed of a jewel which his host had staked, and it was
     said that a ring of great value had disappeared. But it was
     all hushed up--Devereux had really died in a fit--though soon
     after, for reasons only hinted at, the round tower was shut
     up, till the present man rashly opened it again.

     "Almost at once, he said, the annoyances, to use a mild term,
     began. First one, then another of the household were terrified
     out of their wits, just as we were, Leila. Devereux himself had
     seen it two or three times, the 'it,' of course, being his
     miserable old ancestor. A small man, with a big wig, and long,
     thin, claw-like fingers. It all corresponded. Mrs. Devereux is
     young and nervous. She could not stand it. So in the end the
     round tower was shut up again, all the furniture and hangings
     sold, and locally speaking, the ghost laid. That was all
     Devereux knew.

     "We started, the three of us, that very afternoon, as excited
     as a party of schoolboys. Miles and I kept questioning
     Devereux, but he had really no more to tell. He had never
     thought of examining the walls of the haunted room--it was
     wainscotted, he said--and might be lined all through with
     secret cupboards, for all he knew. But he could not get
     over the extraordinariness of the ghost's sticking to the
     _tapestry_--and indeed it does rather lower one's idea of
     ghostly intelligence.

     "We went at it at once--the tower was not _bricked_ up again,
     luckily--we got in without difficulty the next morning--Devereux
    making some excuse to the servants, a new set who had not heard
    of the ghost, for our eccentric proceedings. It was a tiresome
    business. There were so many panels in the room, as Hunter had
    said, and it was impossible to tell in which _the_ tapestry had
    been fixed. But we had our measures, and we carefully marked a
    line as near as we could guess at the height from the floor that
    the cut in the _portières_ must have been. Then we tapped and
    pummelled and pressed imaginary springs till we were nearly sick
    of it--there was nothing to guide us. The wainscotting was dark
    and much shrunk and marked with age, and full of joins in the
    wood any one of which might have meant a door.

     "It was Devereux himself who found it at last. We heard an
     exclamation from where he was standing by himself at the other
     side of the room. He was quite white and shaky.

     "'Look here,' he said, and we looked.

     "Yes--there was a small deep recess, or cupboard in the
     thickness of the wall, excellently contrived. Devereux had
     touched the spring at last, and the door, just matching the
     cut in the tapestry, flew open.

     "Inside lay what at first we took for a packet of letters, and
     I hoped to myself they contained nothing that would bring
     trouble on poor Devereux. They were not letters, however, but
     two or three incomplete packs of cards--grey and dust-thick
     with age--and as Miles spread them out, certain markings on
     them told their own tale. Devereux did not like it,
     naturally--their supposed owner had been a member of his house.

     "'The ghost has kept a conscience,' he said, with an attempt at
     a laugh. 'Is there nothing more?'

     "Yes--a small leather bag--black and grimy, though originally,
     I fancy, of chamois skin. It drew with strings. Devereux pulled
     it open, and felt inside.

     "'By George!' he exclaimed. And he held out the most
     magnificent diamond ring I have ever seen--sparkling away as if
     it had only just come from the polisher's. 'This must be _the_
     ring,' he said.

     "And we all stared--too astonished to speak.

     "Devereux closed the cupboard again, after carefully examining
     it to make sure nothing had been left behind. He marked the
     exact spot where he had pressed the spring so as to find it at
     any time. Then we all left the round room, locking the door
     securely after us.

     "Miles and I spent that night at Hallinger. We sat up late
     talking it all over. There are some queer inconsistencies about
     the thing which will probably never be explained. First and
     foremost--why has the ghost stuck to the tapestry instead of to
     the actual spot he seemed to have wished to reveal? Secondly,
     what was the connection between his visits and the full
     moon--or is it that only by the moonlight the shade becomes
     perceptible to human sense? Who can say?

     "As to the story itself--what was old Devereux's motive in
     concealing his own ring? Were the marked cards his, or his
     opponent's, of which he had managed to possess himself, and had
     secreted as testimony against the other fellow?

     "I incline, and so does Miles, to this last theory, and when we
     suggested it to Devereux, I could see it was a relief to him.
     After all, one likes to think one's ancestors were gentlemen!

     "'But what, then, has he been worrying about all this century
     or more?' he said. 'If it were that he wanted the ring returned
     to its real owner--supposing the fellow _had_ won it--I could
     understand it, though such a thing would be impossible. There
     is no record of the man at all--his name was never mentioned in
     the story.'

     "'He may want the ring restored to its proper owner all the
     same,' said Miles. 'You are its owner, as the head of the
     family, and it has been your ancestor's fault that it has been
     hidden all these years. Besides, we cannot take upon ourselves
     to explain motives in such a case. Perhaps--who knows?--the
     poor shade could not help himself. His peregrinations may have
     been of the nature of punishment.'

     "'I hope they are over now,' said Devereux, 'for his sake and
     everybody else's. I should be glad to think he wanted the ring
     restored to us, but besides that, I should like to do
     something--something _good_ you know--if it would make him
     easier, poor old chap. I must consult Lilias.' Lilias is Mrs.
     Devereux.

     "This is all I have to tell you at present, Leila. When I come
     home we'll have the _portières_ up again and see what happens.
     I want you now to read all this to my father, and if he has no
     objection--he and my mother, of course--I should like to invite
     Captain and Mrs. Devereux to stay a few days with us--as well
     as Miles, as soon as I come back."

Philip's wish was acceded to. It was with no little anxiety and interest
that we awaited his return.

The tapestry _portières_ were restored to their place--and on the first
moonlight night, my father, Philip, Captain Devereux and Mr. Miles held
their vigil.

What happened?

_Nothing_--the peaceful rays lighted up the quaint landscape of
the tapestry, undisturbed by the poor groping fingers--no gruesome
unearthly chill as of worse than death made itself felt to the midnight
watchers--the weary, may we not hope repentant, spirit was at rest at
last!

And never since has any one been troubled by the shadow in the
moonlight.

"I cannot help hoping," said Mrs. Devereux, when talking it over, "that
what Michael has done may have helped to calm the poor ghost."

And she told us what it was. Captain Devereux is rich, though not
immensely so. He had the ring valued--it represented a very large sum,
but Philip says I had better not name the figures--and then he, so to
say, bought it from himself. And with this money he--no, again, Phil
says I must not enter into particulars beyond saying that with it he did
something very good, and very useful, which had long been a pet scheme
of his wife's.

Sophy is grown up now and she knows the whole story. So does our mother.
And Dormy too has heard it all. The horror of it has quite gone. We feel
rather proud of having been the actual witnesses of a ghostly drama.
