TITLE: The Open Door
AUTHOR: Charlotte Riddell (Mrs. J. H. Riddell)
FIRST PUBLICATION YEAR: 1882
FORM: short fiction
SOURCE EDITION/CONTAINER: Weird Stories (1882)
SOURCE URL: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/21/Weird_Stories.pdf
SOURCE PDF PAGES EXTRACTED: 63-118
TEXT STATUS: Lightly cleaned machine OCR; not a corrected diplomatic transcription.
EDITORIAL NOTE: Check quotations, punctuation, proper names, and suspected OCR errors against the scan before scholarly quotation.

--- BEGIN OCR TEXT ---

SOME people do not believe in ghosts. For
that matter some people do not believe in
anything. There are persons who even affect
incredulity concerning that open door at Ladlow
Hall. They say it did not stand wide openthat they could have shut it ; that the whole
affair was a delusion ; that they are sure it
must have been a conspiracy ; that they are
doubtful whether there is such a place as Ladlow on the face of the earth ; that the first time
.
they are in Meadowshire they will look it up.
That is the manner in which this story ,
hitherto unpublished, has been greeted by my
acquaintances. How it will be received by
strangers is quite another matter. I am going
to tell what happened to me exactly as it happened, and readers can credit or scoff at the tale
as it pleases them. It is not necessary for me
to find faith and comprehension in addition to a

ghost story, for the world at large. If such
were the case, I should lay down my pen.
Perhaps, before going further, I ought to
premise there was a time when I did not believe
in ghosts either. If you had asked me one
summer's morning years ago when you met me
on London Bridge, if I held such appearances
to be probable or possible, you would have
received an emphatic " No " for answer .
But, at this rate, the story of the Open Door
will never be told ; so we will, with your permission, plunge into it immediately.
Sandy ! "
"What do you want ? "
"Should you like to earn a sovereign ? "
" Of course I should."
A somewhat curt dialogue, but we were given
to curtness in the office of Messrs . Frimpton ,
Frampton, and Fryer, auctioneers and estate
agents, St. Benet's Hill, City.
(My name is not Sandy or anything like it,
but the other clerks so styled me because of a
real or fancied likeness to some character, an

ill-looking Scotchman, they had seen at the
theatre. From this it may be inferred I was not
handsome . Far from it. The only ugly specimen in my family, I knew I was very plain ; and
it chanced to be no secret to me either that I
felt grievously discontented with my lot.
E

I did not like the occupation of clerk in an
auctioneer's office, and I did not like my employers .
We are all of us inconsistent, I suppose, for it

was a shock to me to find they entertained a
most cordial antipathy to me. )
Because," went on Parton, a fellow, my
senior by many years-a fellow who delighted
.
in chaffing me, " I can tell you how to lay
hands on one."

" How ?" I asked , sulkily enough, for I felt
he was having what he called his fun .
" You know that place we let to Carrison, the
tea- dealer ? "

Carrison was a merchant in the China trade,
possessed of fleets of vessels and towns of warehouses ; but I did not correct Parton's expression ,
I simply nodded.
" He took it on a long lease, and he can't live
in it ; and our governor said this morning he
wouldn't mind giving anybody who could find
out what the deuce is the matter, a couple of
sovereigns and his travelling expenses ."
"Where is the place ? " I asked , without turning my head ; for the convenience of listening I
had put my elbows on the desk and
propped up my face with both hands .
66 Away down in Meadowshire , in the heart of

the grazing country."

THE OPEN DOOK. 51

" And what is the matter ? " I further
inquired.
" A door that won't keep shut."
" What ? "
"A door that will keep open, if you prefer
that way of putting it," said Parton.
" You are jesting."
" If I am, Carrison is not, or Fryer either.
Carrison came here in a nice passion , and Fryer
was in a fine rage ; I could see he was, though
he kept his temper outwardly. They have had
an active correspondence it appears , and Carrison went away to talk to his lawyer. Won't
make much by that move, I fancy."
"But tell me," I intreated, " why the door
won't keep shut ? "
"They say the place is haunted ."
" What nonsense ! " I exclaimed.

" Then you are just the person to take the
ghost in hand . I thought so while old Fryer
was speaking ."
"If the door won't keep shut, " I remarked,
pursuing my own train of thought, " why can't
they let it stay open ? "
" I have not the slightest idea. I only
know there are two sovereigns to be made,
and that I give you a present of the information."
.
And having thus spoken, Parton took down

his hat and went out, either upon his own
business or that of his employers .
There was one thing I can truly say about
our office, we were never serious in it. I fancy
that is the case in most offices nowadays ; at all
events it was the case in ours . We were always

chaffing each other, playing practical jokes, telling stupid stories, scamping our work, looking
at the clock, counting the weeks to next St.
Lubbock's Day, counting the hours to Saturday.
For all that we were all very earnest in our
desire to have our salaries raised, and unanimous in the opinion no fellows ever before
received such wretched pay. I had twenty

pounds a year, which I was aware did not half
provide for what I eat at home. My mother
and sisters left me in no doubt on the point, and
when new clothes were wanted I always hated
to mention the fact to my poor worried father.
We had been better off once , I believe,

though I never remember the time. My father
owned a small property in the country, but
owing to the failure of some bank, I never
could understand what bank, it had to be
mortgaged ; then the interest was not paid, and
the mortgagees foreclosed, and we had nothing
left save the half-pay of a major, and about a
hundred a year which my mother brought to
the common fund .

We might have managed on our income, I think,
if we had not been so painfully genteel ; but
we were always trying to do something quite
beyond our means, and consequently debts accumulated, and creditors ruled us with rods of
iron.
Before the final smash came, one of my sisters
married the younger son of a distinguished
family, and even if they had been disposed to
live comfortably and sensibly she would have
kept her sisters up to the mark. My only
brother, too, was an officer, and of course the
family thought it necessary he should see we
preserved appearances.
It was all a great trial to my father, I think,
who had to bear the brunt of the dunning and
harass, and eternal shortness of money ; and
it would have driven me crazy if I had not
found a happy refuge when matters were going
wrong at home at my aunt's. She was my
father's sister, and had married so " dreadfully
below her " that my mother refused to acknowledge the relationship at all .
For these reasons and others, Parton's careless
words about the two sovereigns stayed in my
memory .
I wanted money badly-I may say I never
had sixpence in the world of my own — and
I thought if I could earn two sovereigns I

5: THE OPEN DOOR.

might buy some trifles I needed for myself,
and present my father with a new umbrella.
Fancy is a dangerous little jade to flirt with,
as I soon discovered.
She led me on and on . First I thought of
the two sovereigns ; then I recalled the amount
of the rent Mr. Carrison agreed to pay for
Ladlow Hall ; then I decided he would gladly
give more than two sovereigns if he could
only have the ghost turned out of possession .
I fancied I might get ten pounds - twenty
pounds. I considered the matter all day, and
I dreamed of it all night, and when I dressed
myself next morning I was determined to speak
to Mr. Fryer on the subject.
I did so I told that gentleman Parton had
mentioned the matter to me, and that if Mr.
Fryer had no objection , I should like to try
whether I could not solve the mystery.. I
told him I had been accustomed to lonely
houses, and that I should not feel at all nervous ; that I did not believe in ghosts, and
as for burglars, I was not afraid of them.
" I don't mind your trying," he said at last.
" Of course you understand it is no cure, no
pay. Stay in the house for a week ; if at
the end of that time you can keep the
door shut, locked , bolted, or nailed up, telegraph for me, and I will go down - if not,

come back. If you like to take a companion,
there is no objection ."
I thanked him, but said I would rather not
have a companion .
"There is only one thing, sir, I should like,"
I ventured .
" And that ? " he interrupted .

" Is a little more money. If I lay the ghost,
or find out the ghost, I think I ought to have
more than two sovereigns . "
" How much more do you think you ought
to have ? " he asked.

His tone quite threw me off my guard, it
was so civil and conciliatory, and I answered boldly :
"Well, if Mr. Carrison cannot now live in.
the place perhaps he wouldn't mind giving
me a ten-pound note."
Mr. Fryer turned, and opened one of the
books lying on his desk. He did not look
at, or refer to it in any way- I saw that .
"You have been with us how long, Edlyd ? '
he said.
" Eleven months to-morrow," I replied.
" And our arrangement was, I think, quarterly payments, and one month's notice on
either side ? '

"Yes, sir." I heard my voice tremble, though
I could not have said what frightened me.

" Then you will please to take your notice
now. Come in before you leave this evening,

and I'll pay you three months' salary, and then we
shall be quits .'
" I don't think I quite understand," i was
beginning, when he broke in :
"But I understand , and that's enough. I
have had enough of you and your airs, and
your indifference, and your insolence here. I
never had a clerk I disliked as I do you. Coming and dictating terms, forsooth ! No, you
shan't go to Ladlow . Many a poor chap" -
(he said, " devil ")
" would have been glad to
earn half a guinea, let alone two sovereigns ;
and perhaps you may be before you are
much older."

" Do you mean that you won't keep me
here any longer, sir ? " I asked in despair .
""
" I had no intention of offending you. I-

"Now you need not say another word ," he
interrupted , " for I won't bandy words with you.
Since you have been in this place you have
never known your position, and you don't seem
able to realise your position. When I was

foolish enough to take you , I did it on the
strength of your connexions, but your connexions have done nothing for me. I have never
had a penny out of any one of your friends- if
you have any. You'll not do any good in

business for yourself or anybody else, and the
sooner you go to Australia- or "-(here he was
very emphatic) " and get off these premises, the
better I shall be pleased."
I did not answer him-I could not. He had
worked himself to a white heat by this time,
and evidently intended I should leave his premises then and there. He counted five pounds.
out of his cash-box, and, writing a receipt,
pushed it and the money across the table , and
bade me sign and be off at once.
My hand trembled so I could scarcely hold
the pen, but I had presence of mind enough left

to return one pound ten in gold , and three
shillings and fourpence I had , quite by the
merest good fortune, in my waistcoat pocket .
" I can't take wages for work I haven't done,”
I said , as well as sorrow and passion would let
me. " Good-morning," and I left his office and
passed out among the clerks .
I took from my desk the few articles belonging to me, left the papers it contained in order,
and then, locking it, asked Parton if he would
be so good as to give the key to Mr. Fryer.
"What's up ? " he asked . "Are you going ? "
I said, " Yes, I am going."
"Got the sack ? "

" That is exactly what has happened."
" Well , I'm -! " exclaimed Mr. Parton.

N R
58 THE OPE DOO .

I did not stop to hear any further commentary on the matter, but bidding my fellow-clerks
good-bye, shook the dust of Frimpton's Estate
and Agency Office from off my feet.
I did not like to go home and say I was
discharged, so I walked about aimlessly, and at
length found myself in Regent Street . There I
met my father, looking more worried than
usual.

" Do you think, Phil," he said (my name is
Theophilus), " you could get two or three
pounds from your employers ."
Maintaining a discreet silence regarding what
had passed, I answered :
" No doubt I could ."

" I shall be glad if you will then, my boy,"
he went on, " for we are badly in want of it."
I did not ask him what was the special
trouble. Where would have been the use ?
There was always something -gas, or water, or
poor-rates, or the butcher, or the baker, or the
bootmaker. Well, it did not much matter, for
we were well accustomed to the life ; but, I

thought, " if ever I marry, we will keep within
""
our means.' And then there rose up before me

a vision of Patty, my cousin- the blithest ,
prettiest, most useful, most sensible girl that
ever made sunshine in a poor man's house .
My father and I had parted by this time, and

I was still walking aimlessly on , when all at
once an idea occurred to me. Mr. Fryer had
not treated me well or fairly. I would hoist
him on his own petard. I would go to headquarters, and try to make terms with Mr.
Carrison direct .
No sooner thought than done . I hailed a
passing omnibus, and was ere long in the heart
of the city. Like other great men , Mr. Carrison
was difficult of access- indeed , so difficult of
access, that the clerk to whom I applied for an
audience told me plainly I could not see him at
all . I might send in my message if I liked , he
was good enough to add, and no doubt it would
be attended to . I said I should not send in a
message, and was then asked what I would do.
My answer was simple. I meant to wait till I
did see him. I was told they could not have
people waiting about the office in this way.
I said I supposed I might stay in the street.
" Carrison didn't own that," I suggested .
The clerk advised me not to try that game ,
or I might get locked up.
I said I would take my chance of it.
After that we went on arguing the question
at some length, and we were in the middle of a
heated argument, in which several of Carrison's
" young gentlemen," as they called themselves ,
were good enough to join, when we were all

suddenly silenced by a grave-looking individual ,
who authoritatively inquired :
" What is all this noise about ? "
Before anyone could answer I spoke up :
" I want to see Mr. Carrison, and they won't
let me."

" What do you want with Mr. Carrison ? "
66 will tell that to himself only."
"I
Very well, say on-I am Mr. Carrison."
For a moment I felt abashed and almost
ashamed of my
my persistency
persistency ;; next instant,
however, what Mr. Fryer would have called
my " native audacity " came to the rescue,
and I said, drawing a step or two nearer to
him, and taking off my hat :
" I wanted to speak to you about Ladlow
Hall, if you please, sir."
In an instant the fashion of his face changed,
a look of irritation succeeded to that of immobility ; an angry contraction of the eyebrows
disfigured the expression of his countenance .
" Ladlow Hall ! " he repeated ; " and what
have you got to say about Ladlow Hall ? ”
"That is what I wanted to tell you , sir,"
I answered, and a dead hush seemed to fall on
the office as I spoke.
The silence seemed to attract his attention,
for he looked sternly at the clerks, who were
not using a pen or moving a finger.

"Come this way, then ," he said; abruptly ;
and next minute I was in his private office.
'Now, what is it ? " he asked , flinging himself into a chair, and addressing me, who stood
hat in hand beside the great table in the
middle of the room.

I began-I will say he was a patient listener
-at the very beginning, and told my story
straight through . I concealed nothing . I enlarged on nothing. A discharged clerk I stood
before him, and in the capacity of a discharged
clerk I said what I had to say. He heard me to
the end, then he sat silent, thinking.
At last he spoke.
" You have heard a great deal of conversation
about Ladlow, I suppose ? " he remarked .
"No, sir ; I have heard nothing except what
I have told you ."

" And why do you desire to strive to solve
""
such a mystery ?
"If there is any money to be made, I should
like to make it, sir . "
"How old are you ? "
66 99
Two-and-twenty last January.'
" And how much salary had you at

Frimpton's ? "
Twenty pounds a year."
" Humph ! More than you are worth , I
should say."

" Mr. Fryer seemed to imagine so, sir, at any
rate," I agreed, sorrowfully.
" But what do you think ? " he asked,
smiling in spite of himself.
" I think I did quite as much work as the
other clerks," I answered .
"That is not saying much, perhaps," he
observed. I was of his opinion, but I held my
peace.
" You will never make much of a clerk, I am
afraid," Mr. Carrison proceeded , fitting his
disparaging remarks upon me as he might
on a lay figure. " You don't like desk-work ? "
" Not much, sir."
" I should judge the best thing you could do
would be to emigrate," he went on, eyeing me
critically.
"Mr. Fryer said I had better go to Australia
or " I stopped, remembering the alternative
that gentleman had presented.
" Or where ? " asked Mr. Carrison .

" The ——, sir,” I explained , softly and apologetically.
He laughed he lay back in his chair and
laughed and I laughed myself, though ruefully.
After all, twenty pounds was twenty pounds,
though I had not thought much of the salary
till I lost it.

We went on talking for a long time after
that ; he asked me all about my father and my
early life, and how we lived, and where we
lived, and the people we knew ; and, in fact,
put more questions than I can well remember.
" It seems a crazy thing to do, " he said at
last ;
" and yet I feel disposed to trust you .
The house is standing perfectly empty. I can't
live in it, and I can't get rid of it ; all my own
furniture I have removed, and there is nothing
in the place except a few old-fashioned articles
belonging to Lord Ladlow. The place is a loss
to me. It is of no use trying to let it, and
thus, in fact, matters are at a dead lock . You
won't be able to find out anything, I know, because, of course, others have tried to solve the

mystery ere now ; still, if you like to try you
may. I will make this bargain with you . If
you like to go down , I will pay your reasonable
expenses for a fortnight ; and if you do any
good for me, I will give you a ten-pound note
for yourself. Of course I must be satisfied that
what you have told me is true and that you are
what you represent . Do you know anybody in
the city who would speak for you ? "
I could think of no one but my uncle. I
hinted to Mr. Carrison he was not grand enough
or rich enough , perhaps, but I knew nobody
else to whom I could refer him.

" What ! " he said , " Robert Dorland , of Cullum Street. He does business with us . If he

will go bail for your good behaviour I shan't
want any further guarantee. Come along ."

And to my intense amazement, he rose, put on
his hat , walked me across the outer office and
along the pavements till we came to Cullum
Street.
" Do you know this youth, Mr. Dorland ? " he
said, standing in front of my uncle's desk, and
laying a hand on my shoulder.
" Of course I do , Mr. Carrison," answered my
uncle, a little apprehensively ; for, as he told me
afterwards, he could not imagine what mischief
I had been up to. " He is my nephew."
" And what is your opinion of him - do you
think he is a young fellow I may safely trust ? "
My uncle smiled, and answered . " That depends on what you wish to trust him with ."
"A long column of addition , for instance."
" It would be safer to give that task to someone else ."
Oh , uncle ! " I remonstrated ; for I had
really striven to conquer my natural antipathy
to figures worked hard , and every bit of it
against the collar.
My uncle got off his stool, and said , standing
with his back to the empty fire-grate :

" Tell me what you wish the boy to do , Mr.

Carrison, and I will tell you whether he will
suit your purpose or not. I know him, I believe, better than he knows himself."
In an easy, affable way, for so rich a man,
Mr. Carrison took possession of the vacant stool ,
and nursing his right leg over his left knee,
answered :

" He wants to go and shut the open door at
Ladlow for me. Do you think he can do
that ? "

My uncle looked steadily back at the speaker,
and said, " I thought, Mr. Carrison , it was quite
settled no one could shut it ? "

Mr. Carrison shifted a little uneasily on his
seat, and replied : " I did not set your nephew
the task he fancies he would like to undertake."

" Have nothing to do with it, Phil, " advised
my uncle, shortly.
"You don't believe in ghosts, do you, Mr. Dorland ? " asked Mr. Carrison, with a slight sneer.

" Don't you, Mr. Carrison ? " retorted my
uncle.
There was a pause-an uncomfortable pause
-during the course of which I felt the ten
pourds, which, in imagination, I had really
spent, trembling in the scale. I was not afraid.

For ten pounds, or half the money, I would
have faced all the inhabitants of spirit land. I
longed to tell them so ; but something in the way
F

those two men looked at each other stayed my
tongue.
"If you ask me the question here in the
heart of the city, Mr. Dorland," said Mr. Carrison, at length, slowly and carefully, " I answer
' No ;' but if you were to put it to me on a dark
night at Ladlow, I should beg time to consider.
I do not believe in supernatural phenomena myself, and yet- the door at Ladlow is as much
beyond my comprehension as the ebbing and
flowing of the sea."
" And you can't live at Ladlow? " remarked
my uncle.
"I can't live at Ladlow, and what is more, I
can't get anyone else to live at Ladlow."
" And you want to get rid of your lease ? "
" I want so much to get rid of my lease , that
I told Fryer I would give him a handsome sum
if he could induce anyone to solve the mystery.
Is there any other information you desire, Mr.
Dorland ? because if there is, you have only to
ask and have. I feel I am not here in a prosaic
office in the city of London, but in the Palace
of Truth ."

My uncle took no notice of the implied
compliment. When wine is good it needs no
bush. If a man is habitually honest in his
speech and in his thoughts, he desires no
recognition of the fact.

"I don't think so ," he answered ; " it is for
the boy to say what he will do . If he be
advised by me he will stick to his ordinary
work in his employers' office, and leave ghosthunting and spirit-laying alone. "
Mr. Carrison shot a rapid glance in my

direction, a glance which, implying a secret
understanding, might have influenced my reply
could I have stooped to deceive my uncle.
""
" I can't stick to my work there any longer,"
I said. " I got my marching orders to-day."
"What had you been doing, Phil ? " asked
my uncle.
"I wanted ten pounds to go and lay the
ghost ! " I answered , so dejectedly, that both
Mr. Carrison and my uncle broke out laughing.
" Ten pounds ! " cried my uncle, almost
between laughing and crying, " why, Phil, boy,
I had rather, poor man though I am, have
given thee ten pounds than that thou should'st
go ghost-hunting or ghost-laying ."
When he was very much in earnest my uncle
went back to thee and thou of his native.
dialect. I liked the vulgarism , as my mother

called it, and I knew my aunt loved to hear him
use the caressing words to her . He had risen ,
not quite from the ranks it is true, but if ever a
gentleman came ready born into the world it

was Robert Dorland , upon whom at our home
everyone seemed to look down.

"What will you do , Edlyd ? " asked Mr.
Carrison ; " you hear what your uncle says,
Give up the enterprise,' and what I say ; I
do not want either to bribe or force your
inclinations."

" I will go, sir ," I answered quite steadily.
"I am not afraid, and I should like to show
you-" I stopped. I had been going to say, " I
should like to show you I am not such a fool as
you all take me for," but I felt such an address
would be too familiar, and refrained .
Mr. Carrison looked at me curiously. I think
he supplied the end of the sentence for himself,
but he only answered :
" I should like you to show me that door fast.
shut ; at any rate, if you can stay in the place
alone for a fortnight, you shall have your money.'
" I don't like it, Phil," said my uncle : " I
don't like this freak at all ."
"I am sorry for that, uncle," I answered ,
" for I mean to go."
" When ? " asked Mr. Carrison.
"To-morrow morning," I replied.
" Give him five pounds, Dorland , please, and
I will send you my cheque. You will account
to me for that sum, you understand ," added Mr
Carrison, turning to where I stood.

"A sovereign will be quite enough ," I said .
" You will take five pounds, and account to
me for it," repeated Mr. Carrison , firmly ; “ also ,
you will write to me every day, to my private
address, and if at any moment you feel the
thing too much for you, throw it up. Goodafternoon," and without more formal leavetaking he departed .
"It is of no use talking to you , Phil, I
suppose ? "
" said my uncle.
" I don't think it is," I replied ; " you won't
say anything to them at home, will you ? "
" I am not very likely to meet any of them ,
am I? " he answered , without a shade of bitterness -merely stating a fact .
66 suppose I shall not see you again before I
start," I said, " so I will bid you good-bye
now."
Good-bye, my lad ; I wish I could see you a
bit wiser and steadier.".
I did not answer him ; my heart was very
full, and my eyes too. I had tried, but officework was not in me, and I felt it was just as
vain to ask me to sit on a stool and pore over

writing and figures as to think a person born
destitute of musical ability could compose an
opera.
Of course I went straight to Patty ; though
we were not then married, though sometimes it

seemed to me as if we never should be married ,
she was my better half then as she is my better
half now.

She did not throw cold water on the project ;
she did not discourage me. What she said, with
her dear face aglow with excitement, was, " I
only wish, Phil, I was going with you . " Heaven
knows so did I.
Next morning I was up before the milkman.
I had told my people over-night I should be
going out of town on business . Patty and I
settled the whole plan in detail . I was to
breakfast and dress there, for I meant to go
down to Ladlow in my volunteer garments.
That was a subject upon which my poor father
and I never could agree ; he called volunteering
child's play, and other things equally hard to
bear ; whilst my brother, a very carpet warrior
to my mind, was never weary of ridiculing the
force, and chaffing me for imagining I was " a
soldier."

Patty and I had talked matters over, and
settled, as I have said, that I should dress at
her father's .
A young fellow I knew had won a revolver at
a raffle, and willingly lent it to me. With that
and my rifle I felt I could conquer an army.
It was a lovely afternoon when I found myself walking through leafy lanes in the heart of

Meadowshire. With every vein of my heart I
loved the country, and the country was looking
its best just then : grass ripe for the mower,
grain forming in the ear, rippling streams,
dreamy rivers, old orchards, quaint cottages.
" Oh that I had never to go back to London," I thought, for I am one of the few people
left on earth who love the country and hate
cities. I walked on, I walked a long way,

and being uncertain as to my road , asked a
gentleman who was slowly riding a powerful
roan horse under arching trees a gentleman
accompanied by a young lady mounted on a
stiff white pony- my way to Ladlow Hall.
" That is Ladlow Hall," he answered , pointing
with his whip over the fence to my left hand . I
thanked him and was going on, when he said :
" No one is living there now."
" I am aware of that," I answered.
He did not say anything more, only courteously bade me good-day, and rode off. The
young lady inclined her headin acknowledgment of my uplifted cap, and smiled * kindly.
Altogether I felt pleased, little things always
did please me. It was a good beginning—halfway to a good ending !
When I got to the Lodge I showed Mr.
Carrison's letter to the woman , and received
the key.

" You are not going to stop up at the Hall
alone, are you, sir ? " she asked .
" Yes, I am," I answered , uncompromisingly,
so uncompromisingly that she said no more.
The avenue led straight to the house ; it was
uphill all the way, and bordered by rows of
the most magnificent limes I ever beheld. A
light iron fence divided the avenue from the
park, and between the trunks of the trees I
could see the deer browsing and cattle grazing. Ever and anon there came likewise to
my ear the sound of a sheep-bell.
It was a long avenue, but at length I stood
in front of the Hall-a square, solid-looking,
old- fashioned house , three stories high, with
no basement ; a flight of steps up to the principal entrance ; four windows to the right of
the door, four windows to the left ; the whole
building flanked and backed with trees ; all
the blinds pulled down , a dead silence brooding over the place : the sun westering behind
the great trees studding the park. I took all
this in as I approached, and afterwards as I
stood for a moment under the ample porch ;

then, remembering the business which had
brought me so far, I fitted the great key in the
lock, turned the handle, and entered Ladlow
Hall.

For a minute - stepping out of the bright

sunlight-the place looked to me so dark that
I could scarcely distinguish the objects by
which I was surrounded ; but my eyes soon

grew accustomed to the comparative darkness,
and I found I was in an immense hall, lighted
from the roof ; a magnificent old oak staircase
conducted to the upper rooms .
The floor was of black and white marble .

There were two fireplaces, fitted with dogs
for burning wood ; around the walls hung
pictures, antlers, and horns , and in odd niches
and corners stood groups of statues, and the
figures of men in complete suits of armour.
To look at the place outside, no one would
have expected to find such a hall. I stood
lost in amazement and admiration, and then
I began to glance more particularly around .
Mr. Carrison had not given me any instructions by which to identify the ghostly chamber
-which I concluded would most probably be
found on the firstfloor.

I knew nothing of the story connected with
it-if there were a story . On that point I had
left London as badly provided with mental as
with actual luggage-worse provided , indeed ,
for a hamper, packed by Patty, and a small bag
were coming over from the station ; but regarding the mystery I was perfectly unencumbered .
I had not the faintest idea in which apartment

it resided. Well, I should discover that, no
doubt, for myself ere long.
I looked around me- doors -doors - doors.
I had never before seen so many doors together
all at once. Two of them stood open -one

wide, the other slightly ajar.
" I'll just shut them as a beginning," I
thought, " before I go upstairs ."
The doors were of oak, heavy, well-fitting,
furnished with good locks and sound handles.
After I had closed I tried them. Yes, they
were quite secure. I ascended the great staircase feeling curiously like an intruder, paced
the corridors, entered the many bed-chambers
-some quite bare of furniture, others containing articlesof an ancient fashion , and no doubt
of considerable value- chairs, antique dressingtables, curious wardrobes, and such like. For
the most part the doors were closed, and I shut
those that stood open before making my way
into the attics.
I was greatly delighted with the attics . The
windows lighting them did not, as a rule, overlook the front of the Hall, but commanded
wide views over wood, and valley, and meadow.
Leaning out of one, I could see, that to the
right of the Hall, the ground , thickly planted,
shelved down to a stream, which came out into
the daylight a little distance beyond the plantation, and meandered through the deer park.
At the back of the Hall the windows looked
out on nothing save a dense wood and a portior
of the stable-yard , whilst on the side nearest
the point from whence I had come there were
spreading gardens surrounded by thick yew
hedges, and kitchen-gardens protected by high
walls ; and further on a farmyard , where I could
perceive cows and oxen, and , further still, luxuriant meadows, and fields glad with waving
corn.
"What a beautiful place ! " I said. " Carrison must have been a duffer to leave it ; " and
then I thought what a great ramshackle house
it was for anyone to be in all alone.
Getting heated with my long walk, I suppose ,
made me feel chilly, for I shivered as I drew
my head in from the last dormer window, and
prepared to go downstairs again .
In the attics , as in the other parts of the
house I had as yet explored, I closed the doors ,
when there were keys locking them ; when
there were not, trying them, and in all cases,
leaving them securely fastened .
When I reached the ground-floor the evening
was drawing on apace, and I felt that if I
wanted to explore the whole house before dusk
I must hurry my proceedings.
" I'll take the kitchens next," I decided, and

so made my way to a wilderness of domestic
offices lying to the rear of the great hall .
Stone passages, great kitchens, an immense
servants'-hall, larders , pantries , coal-cellars, beercellars, laundries, brewhouses , housekeeper's
room - it was not of any use lingering over
these details . The mystery that troubled Mr.
Carrison could scarcely lodge amongst cinders
and empty bottles, and there did not seem much
else left in this part of the building.
I would go through the living- rooms, and
then decide as to the apartments I should
occupy myself.
The evening shadows were drawing on apace,
so I hurried back into the hall, feeling it was a
weird position to be there all alone with those
ghostly hollow figures, of men in armour , and
the statues on which the moon's beams must fall

so coldly. I would just look through the
lower apartments and then kindle a fire. I had
seen quantities of wood in a cupboard close at
hand , and felt that beside a blazing hearth, and
after a good cup of tea I should not feel the
solitary sensation which was oppressing me.
The sun had sunk below the horizon by this
time, for to reach Ladlow I had been obliged to
travel by cross lines of railway, and wait besides
for such trains as condescended to carry thirdclass passengers ; but there was still light

enough in the hall to see all objects distinctly.
With my own eyes I saw that one of the doors
I had shut with my own hands was standing
wide !;
I turned to the door on the other side of the
hall. It was as I had left it- closed . This,
then, was the room - this with the open door.
For a second I stood appalled ; I think I was
fairly frightened .
That did not last long, however. There lay
the work I had desired to undertake, the foe I
had offered to fight ; so without more ado I
shut the door and tried it.
"Now I will walk to the end of the hall and
see what happens," I considered . I did so . I
walked to the foot of the grand staircase and
back again, and looked.
The door stood wide open.

I went into the room, after just a spasm of
irresolution- went in and pulled up the blinds :
a good-sized room, twenty by twenty (I knew,
because I paced it afterwards), lighted by two
long windows.
The floor, of polished oak, was partially
covered with a Turkey carpet. There were two
recesses beside the fireplace, one fitted up as a
bookcase, the other with an old and elaborately
carved cabinet. I was astonished also to find a
bedstead in an apartment so little retired from

the traffic of the house ; and there were also
some chairs of an obsolete make, covered , so far
as I could make out, with faded tapestry .
Beside the bedstead , which stood against the wall
opposite to the door, I perceived another door.
It was fast locked , the only locked door I had as
yet met with in the interior of the house. It
was a dreary, gloomy room : the dark panelled
walls ; the black, shining floor ; the windows
high from the ground ; the antique furniture ;
the dull four-post bedstead, with dingy velvet
curtains ; the gaping chimney ; the silk counterpane that looked like a pall.
" Any crime might have been committed in
such a room," I thought, pettishly ; and then I
looked at the door critically.
Someone had been at the trouble of fitting
bolts upon it, for when I passed out I not
merely shut the door securely, but bolted it
as well.

"I will go and get some wood, and then look
at it again," I soliloquised . When I came back
it stood wide open once more.
" Stay open, then ! " I cried in a fury. "I

won't trouble myself any more with you
to-night ! "
Almost as I spoke the words, there came a
ring at the front- door. Echoing through the
desolate house, the peal in the then state of my

nerves startled me beyond expression .
It was only the man who had agreed to bring
over my traps. I bade him lay them down in
the hall, and , while looking out some small
silver, asked where the nearest post-office was to
be found. Not far from the park gates, he said ;
if I wanted any letter sent, he would drop it in
the box for me ; the mail-cart picked up the bag
at ten o'clock.

I had nothing ready to post then, and told
him so . Perhaps the money I gave was more
than he expected, or perhaps the dreariness of
my position impressed him as it had impressed
ine, for he paused with his hand on the lock,
and asked :

"Are you going to stop here all alone,
master ? "
" All alone ," I answered , with such cheerfulness as was possible under the circumstances.
"That's the room, you know," he said ,
nodding in the direction of the open door, and
dropping his voice to a whisper.
"Yes, I know," I replied.
"What, you've been trying to shut it already,
have you ? Well, you are a game one ! " And
with this complimentary if not very respectful
comment he hastened out of the house. Evidently he had no intention of proffering his
services towards the solution of the mystery.

I cast one glance at the door-- it stood wide.
open. Through the windows I had left bare to
the night, moonlight was beginning to stream
cold and silvery. Before I did aught else I felt
I must write to Mr. Carrison and Patty, so
straightway I hurried to one of the great tables
in the hall, and lighting a candle my thoughtful
little girl had provided, with many other things,
sat down and dashed off the two epistles.
Then down the long avenue, with its mysterious lights and shades, with the moonbeams
glinting here and there, playing at hide-and- seek
round the boles of the trees and through the
tracery of quivering leaf and stem , I walked as
fast as if I were doing a match against time .
It was delicious, the scent of the summer
odours, the smell of the earth ; if it had not
been for the door I should have felt too happy.
As it was-
" Look here , Phil," I said, all of a sudden ;
" life's not child's play, as uncle truly remarks.
That door is just the trouble you have now to
face, and you must face it ! But for that door
you would never have been here. I hope you
are not going to turn coward the very first night.
Courage that is your enemy - conquer it."
" I will try," my other self answered back. "I
can but try. I can but fail."
The post- office was at Ladlow Hollow, a little

hamlet through which the stream I had remarked
dawdling on its way across the park flowed
swiftly, spanned by an ancient bridge.
As I stood by the door of the little shop , asking some question of the postmistress, the same
gentleman I had met in the afternoon mounted
on his roan horse, passed on foot. He wished me
good-night as he went by, and nodded familiarly
to my companion, who curtseyed her acknowledgments.
" His lordship ages fast," she remarked , following the retreating figure with her eyes.
"His lordship," I repeated . " Of whom are

you speaking ? ”
" Of Lord Ladlow," she said.
" Oh ! I have never seen him," I answered,
puzzled.
"Why, that was Lord Ladlow ! " she exclaimed.

You may be sure I had something to think
about as I walked back to the Hall-something
beside the moonlight and the sweet night- scents,
and the rustle of beast and bird and leaf, that
make silence seem more eloquent than noise
away down in the heart of the country.
Lord Ladlow ! my word , I thought he was
hundreds, thousands of miles away ; and here
I find him-he walking in the opposite direction from his own home-I an inmate of
G

bis desolate abode. Hi !-what was that ? I

heard a noise in a shrubbery close at hand, and
in an instant I was in the thick of the underwood.
Something shot out and darted into the cover of
the further plantation . I followed, but I could
catch never a near glimpse of it. I did not know
the lie of the ground sufficiently to course with
success, and I had at length to give up the hunt
-heated, baffled, and annoyed.
When I got into the house the moon's beams
were streaming down upon the hall ; I could see
every statue, every square of marble, every
piece of armour. For all the world it seemed

to me like something in a dream ; but I was
tired and sleepy, and decided I would not
trouble about fire or food, or the open door,
till the next morning : I would go to sleep.
With this intention I picked up some of my

traps and carried them to a room on the first
floor I had selected as small and habitable . I
went down for the rest, and this time chanced
to lay my hand on my rifle.
It was wet. I touched the floor- it was wet
likewise .

I never felt anything like the thrill of delight
which shot through me. I had to deal with
flesh and blood , and I would deal with it,
heaven helping me.
i The next morning broke clear and bright. I

was up with the lark- had washed, dressed ,
breakfasted, explored the house before the postinan came with my letters.
One from Mr. Carrison, one from Patty, and
one from my uncle : I gave the man half-a- crown ,
I was so delighted, and said I was afraid my
being at the Hall would cause him some
additional trouble.
No, sir," he answered , profuse in his expressions of gratitude ; " I pass here every morning
on my way to her ladyship's."
" Who is her ladyship ? " I asked .
" The Dowager Lady Ladlow," he answered
-"the old lord's widow."
" And where is her place ? " I persisted.
"If you keep on through the shrubbery and
across the water-fall, you come to the house
"
about a quarter of a mile further up the stream .'
He departed, after telling me there was only
one post a day ; and I hurried back to the room
in which I had breakfasted, carrying my letters
with me.

I opened Mr. Carrison's first. The gist of it
was, " Spare no expense ; if you run short of
money telegraph for it."
I opened my uncle's next. He implored me
to return ; he had always thought me hairbrained, but he felt a deep interest in and affection for me, and thought he could get me a good

berth if I would only try to settle down and
promise to stick to my work. The last was from
Patty. O Patty, God bless you ! Such women,
I fancy, the men who fight best in battle, who stick
last to a sinking ship, who are firm in life's
struggles, who are brave to resist temptation,
must have known and loved. I can't tell you
more about the letter, except that it gave me
strength to go on to the end.
I spent the forenoon considering that door.
I looked at it from within and from without. I

eyed it critically. I tried whether there was
any reason why it should fly open , and I found
that so long as I remained on the threshold it
remained closed ; if I walked even so far away
as the opposite side of the hall, it swung
wide.
Do what I would it burst from latch and
bolt. I could not lock it because there was no
key. Well , before two o'clock I confess I was
baffled.
At two there came a visitor-none other than
Lord Ladlow himself. Sorely I wanted to
take his horse round to the stables, but he would
not hear of it.
"Walk beside me across the park, if you will
be so kind," he said ; " I want to speak to
you. "
We went together across the park, and before

we parted I felt I could have gone through fire
and water for this simple-spoken nobleman .
" You must not stay here ignorant of the
rumours which are afloat," he said. " Of
course, when I let the place to Mr. Carrison I
knew nothing of the open door."
" Did you not, sir ? -my lord, I mean ," I
stammered.
He smiled . " Do not trouble yourself about
my title, which, indeed, carries a very empty
state with it, but talk to me as you might to
a friend. I had no idea there was any ghost
story connected with the Hall, or I should have
kept the place empty."
I did not exactly know what to answer, so
I remained silent.

" How did you chance to be sent here ? " he
asked, after a pause.
I told him. When the first shock was over,

a lord did not seem very different from anybody
else. If an emperor had taken a morning

canter across the park, I might, supposing him
equally affable, have spoken as familiarly to
him as to Lord Ladlow. My mother always said
I entirely lacked the bump of veneration !
Beginning at the beginning, I repeated the
whole story, from Parton's remark about the
sovereign to Mr. Carrison's conversation with my
uncle. When I had left London behind in the

narrative, however, and arrived at the Hall , I
became somewhat more reticent. After all, it
was his Hall people could not live in- his door
that would not keep shut ; and it seemed to me
these were facts he might dislike being forced
upon his attention.
But he would have it. What had I seen ?
what did I think of the matter? Very honestly
I told him I did not know what to say. The
door certainly would not remain shut, and there
seemed no human agency to account for its
persistent opening ; but then, on the other hand,
ghosts generally did not tamper with fire-arms,
and my rifle, though not loaded , had been tampered with- I was sure of that.
My companion listened attentively. "You are
not frightened, are you ? " he inquired at length .
"Not now," I answered. " The door did

give me a start last evening, but I am not afraid
of that since I find someone else is afraid of a
bullet."
He did not answer for a minute ; then he
said :-

" The theory people have set up about the
open door is this : As in that room my uncle
was murdered, they say the door will never
remain shut till the murderer is discovered ."
" Murdered ! " I did not like the word at all ;
it made me feel chill and uncomfortable.

"Yes-he was murdered sitting in his chair,
and the assassin has never been discovered. At
first many persons inclined to the belief that I

killed him, indeed many are of that opinion
still."
"But you did not, sir- there is not a word of
truth in that story , is there ? "
He laid his hand on my shoulder as he said :
" No , my lad ; not a word . I loved the old
man tenderly. Even when he disinherited me

for the sake of his young wife, I was sorry, but
and when he sent for me and assured
not angry ;
me he had resolved to repair that wrong, I tried
to induce him to leave the lady a handsome sum
in addition to her jointure.
"If you do not, people may think she has
not been the source of happiness you expected ,"
I added .
"Thank you, Hal," he said. " You are a
good fellow ; we will talk further about this tomorrow ; " and then he bade me good-night.
"Before morning broke-it was in the summer two years ago -the household was aroused

with a fearful scream. It was his death- cry.
He had been stabbed from behind in the neck.
He was seated in his chair writing- writing a
letter to me. But for that I might have found
it harder to clear myself than was the case ; for
his solicitors came forward, and said he had

signed a will leaving all his personalty to mehe was very rich —unconditionally, only three
days previously. That, of course, supplied the
motive, as my lady's lawyer put it. She was
very vindictive, spared no expense in trying to
prove my guilt, and said openly she would never
rest till she saw justice done, if it cost her the
whole of her fortune. The letter lying before
the dead man, over which blood had spurted , she
declared must have been placed on his table by me ;
but the coroner saw there was an animus inthis, for
the few opening lines stated my uncle's desire to
confide in me his reasons for changing his will
-reasons, he said, that involved his honour, as
they had destroyed his peace. In the statement you will find sealed up with my will in
At that point he was dealt his death-blow.
The papers were never found, and the will was
never proved. My lady put in the former will,
leaving her everything. Ill as I could afford
to go to law, I was obliged to dispute the
matter, and the lawyers are at it still, and very
likely will continue at it for years .
When I lost
my good name, I lost my good health, and had
to go abroad ; and while I was away, Mr.
Carrison took the Hall.
" Till I returned , I never heard a word about
the open door. My solicitors said Mr. Carrison
was behaving badly : but I think now I must see

them or him , and consider what can be done in
the affair. As for yourself, it is of vital importance to me that this mystery should be cleared
up, and if you are really not timid , stay on. I

am too poor to make rash promises, but you
won't find me ungrateful. "
" Oh, my lord ! " I cried-the address slipped
quite easily and naturally off my tongue --" I
don't want any more money or anything, if I
can only show Patty's father I am good for
something-
"Who is Patty ? " he asked .
He read the answer in my face, for he said no
more .

" Should you like to have a good dog for
company ? " he inquired after a pause.
I hesitated ; then I said :--
"No, thank you . I would rather watch and
hunt for myself."
And as I spoke, the remembrance of that
" something " in the shrubbery recurred to
me, and I told him I thought there had
been someone about the place the previous
evening.
" Poachers," he suggested ; but I shook my
head .

" A girl or a woman I imagine . However, I
think a dog might hamper me."
He went away, and I returned to the house.

I never left it all day. I did not go into the
garden, or the stable-yard , or the shrubbery, or
anywhere ; I devoted myself solely and exclusively to that door.
If I shut it once , I shut it a hundred times ,
and always with the same result. Do what I
would, it swung wide. Never, however, when
I was looking at it. So long as I could
endure to remain, it stayed shut- the instant I
turned my back, it stood open.
About four o'clock I had another visitor ; no
other than Lord Ladlow's daughter - the
Honourable Beatrice, riding her funny little
white pony .

She was a beautiful girl of fifteen or thereabouts, and she had the sweetest smile you
ever saw.
66 Papa sent me with this," she said ; "he
would not trust any other messenger," and she
put a piece of paper in my hand.

"Keep your food under lock and key ; buy what
you require yourself. Get your water from the
pump in the stable-yard. I am going from home ;
but if you want anything, go or send to my
daughter."
"Any answer ? " she asked, patting her
pony's neck.
"Tell his lordship, if you please, I will keep
my powder dry ! '" I replied.

"You have made papa look so happy," she
said , still patting that fortunate pony.
" If it is in my power, I will make him look
happier still , Miss " and I hesitated , not
knowing how to address her.
" Call me Beatrice," she said , with an enchant
ing grace ; then added, slily, " Papa promises
me I shall be introduced to Patty ere long,"
and before I could recover from my astonishment, she had tightened the bit and was turning across the park.
" One moment, please," I cried. “ You can
do something for me."
"What is it ? " and she came back, trotting
over the great sweep in front of the house .
" Lend me your pony for a minute."
She was off before I could even offer to

help her alight - off, and gathering up her
habit dexterously with one hand, led the docile
old sheep forward with the other.
I took the bridle-when I was with horses

I felt amongst my own kind - stroked the pony,
pulled his ears, and 4 let him thrust his nose.
into my hand.
Miss Beatrice is a countess now, and a

happy wife and mother ; but I sometimes see
her, and the other night she took me carefully
into a conservatory and asked :
" Do you remember Toddy, Mr. Edlyd ? "

" Remember him ! " I exclaimed ; " I can
never forget him ! "
" He is dead ! " she told me, and there were
tears in her beautiful eyes as she spoke the
words. " Mr. Edlyd, I loved Toddy ! "
Well, I took Toddy up to the house, and
under the third window to the right hand. He
was a docile creature, and let me stand on
the saddle while I looked into the only room
in Ladlow Hall I had been unable to enter.

It was perfectly bare of furniture, there
was not a thing in it- not a chair or table,
not a picture on the walls, or ornament on
the chimney-piece.
" That is where my grand -uncle's valet slept,"
said Miss Beatrice. " It was he who first ran

in to help him the night he was murdered."
" Where is the valet ? " I asked.
" Dead," she answered. " The shock killed
him . He loved his master more than he loved
himself."

I had seen all I wished , so I jumped off the
saddle, which I had carefully dusted with a
branch plucked from a lilac tree ; between jest
and earnest pressed the hem of Miss Beatrice's
habit to my lips as I arranged its folds ; saw
her wave her hand as she went at a handgallop across the park ; and then turned back
once again into the lonely house, with the

determination to solve the mystery attached
to it or die in the attempt .
Why, I cannot explain, but before I went to
bed that night, I drove a gimlet I found in
stables hard into the floor, and said to the
door :
"Now I am keeping you open."
When I went down in the morning the
door was close shut, and the handle of the
gimlet broken off short, lying in the hall.
I put my hand to wipe my forehead, it was
dripping with perspiration . I did not know
what to make of the place at all ! I went out
into the open air for a few minutes ; when I
returned the door again stood wide .
If I were to pursue in detail the days
and nights that followed , I should weary my
readers. I can only say they changed my life.
The solitude, the solemnity, the mystery, produced an effect I do not profess to understand,
but that I cannot regret.
I have hesitated about writing of the end,
but it must come, so let me hasten to it.
Though feeling convinced that no human
agency did or could keep the door open, I
was certain that some living person had means
of access to the house which I could not

discover. This was made apparent in trifles
which might well have escaped unnoticed

had several, or even two people occupied the
mansion, but that in my solitary position it
was impossible to overlook. A chair would
be misplaced, for instance ; a path would be
visible over a dusty floor ; my papers I found
were moved ; my clothes touched- letters I
carried about with me, and kept under my
pillow at night ; still the fact remained, that
when I went to the post-office, and while I
was asleep, some one did wander over the
house. On Lord Ladlow's return I meant to
ask him for some further particulars of his
uncle's death, and I was about to write to
Mr. Carrison and beg permission to have the
door where the valet had slept broken open,
when one morning, very early indeed , I spied
a hair-pin lying close beside it .
What an idiot I had been ! If I wanted to

solve the mystery of the open door, of course I
must keep watch in the room itself. The door
would not stay wide unless there was a reason
for it, and most certainly a hair-pin could
not have got into the house without assistance .
I made up my mind what I should do —that I
would go to the post early, and take up my position about the hour I hal hitherto started for
Ladlow Hollow. I felt on the eve of a discovery, and longed for the day to pass , that the
night might come.

It was a lovely morning ; the weather had
been exquisite during the whole week, and I
flung the hall-door wide to let in the sunshine
and the breeze. As I did so, I saw there was a

basket on the top step-a basket filled with rare
and beautiful fruit and flowers.
Mr. Carrison had let off the gardens attached
to Ladlow Hall for the season-he thought he
might as well save something out of the fire, he
said, so my fare had not been varied with delicacies of that kind. I was very fond of fruit in
those days, and seeing a card addressed to me, I

instantly selected a tempting peach, and ate it a
little greedily, perhaps.
I might say I had barely swallowed the last
morsel, when Lord Ladlow's caution recurred to
me. The fruit had a curious flavour-there was
a strange taste hanging about my palate. For a
moment, sky, trees and park swam before my
eyes ; then I made up my mind what to do.
I smelt the fruit- it had all the same faint

odour ; then I put some in my pocket- took the
basket and locked it away -walked round to the
farmyard-asked for the loan of a horse that
was generally driven in a light cart, and in less
than half an hour was asking in Ladlow to be
directed to a doctor.
Rather cross at being disturbed so early, he
was at first inclined to pooh-pooh my idea ; but

I made him cut open a pear, and satisfy himself
the fruit had been tampered with.
" It is fortunate you stopped at the first
peach ," he remarked , after giving me a draught,
and some medicine to take back, and advising
me to keep in the open air as much as possible.
" I should like to retain this fruit and see you
again to-morrow."
We did not think then on how many morrows
we should see each other !

Riding across to Ladlow, the postman had
given me three letters, but I did not read them
.
till I was seated under a great tree in the park,
with a basin of milk and a piece of bread beside
me.
Hitherto, there had been nothing exciting in
my correspondence. Patty's epistles were always delightful, but they could not be regarded
as sensational ; and about Mr. Carrison's there
was a monotony I had begun to find tedious.
On this occasion, however, no fault could be
found on that score. The contents of his letter
greatly surprised me . He said Lord Ladlow
had released him from his bargain- that I
could, therefore, leave the Hall at once. He

enclosed me ten pounds, and said he would
consider how he could best advance my interests ; and that I had better call upon him
at his private house when I returned to London.

" I do not think I shall leave Ladlow yet
awhile," I considered , as I replaced his letter in
its envelope. " Before I go I should like to
make it hot for whoever sent me that fruit ;
so unless Lord Ladlow turns me out I'll stay a
little longer."
Lord Ladlow did not wish me to leave . The
third letter was from him.
“ I shall return home to-morrow night,” he

wrote, " and see you on Wednesday. I have
arranged satisfactorily with Mr. Carrison, and as
the Hall is my own again, I mean to try to solve
the mystery it contains myself. If you choose to
stop and help me to do so, you would confer a
favour, and I will try to make it worth your
while."

"I will keep watch to-night, and see if I cannot give you some news to-morrow," I thought.
And then I opened Patty's letter -the best,
dearest, sweetest letter any postman in all the
world could have brought me.
If it had not been for what Lord Ladlow said

about his sharing my undertaking, I should not
have chosen that night for my vigil . I felt ill
and languid fancy , no doubt, to a great degree
inducing these sensations. I had lost energy
in a most unaccountable manner. The long ,

lonely days had told upon my spirits -the
fidgety feeling which took me a hundred times
H

in the twelve hours to look upon the open door,
to close it, and to count how many steps I could
take before it opened again, had tried my mental strength as a perpetual blister might have
worn away my physical. In no sense was I fit
for the task I had set myself, and yet I determined to go through with it. Why had I never
before decided to watch in that mysterious
chamber ? Had I been at the bottom of my
heart afraid ? In the bravest of us there are

depths of cowardice that lurk unsuspected till
they engulf our courage.
The day wore on -the long, dreary day ;
evening approached -the night shadows closed
over the Hall. The moon would not rise for a
couple of hours more. Everything was still as
death . The house had never before seemed to
me so silent and so deserted.

I took a light, and went up to my accustomed
room , moving about for a time as though preparing for bed ; then I extinguished the candle ,
softly opened the door, turned the key, and put
it in my pocket, slipped softly downstairs, across
the hall , through the open door. Then I knew I
had been afraid , for I felt a thrill of terror as
in the dark I stepped over the threshold . I
paused and listened-there was not a sound-the night was still and sultry, as though a storm
were brewing. Not a leaf seemed moving- the

very mice remained in their holes ! Noiselessly
I made my way to the other side of the room.
There was an old- fashioned easy- chair between
the bookshelves and the bed, I sat down in it,
shrouded by the heavy curtain .
The hours passed —were ever hours so long ?
The moon rose, came and looked in at the windows, and then sailed away to the west ; but not
a sound, no, not even the cry of a bird . 1
seemed to myself a mere collection of nerves.
Every part of my body appeared twitching. It
was agony to remain still ; the desire to move
became a form of torture. Ah ! a streak in the

sky ; morning at last, Heaven be praised ! Had
ever anyone before so welcomed the dawn ? A

thrush began to sing-was there ever heard.
such delightful music ? It was the morning
twilight, soon the sun would rise ; soon that
awful vigil would be over, and yet I was no
nearer the mystery than before. Hush ! what
was that ? It had come. After the hours of

watching and waiting ; after the long night
and the long suspense, it came in a moment.
The locked door opened- so suddenly , so
silently, that I had barely time to draw back
behind the curtain, before I saw a woman in the
room. She went straight across to the other
door and closed it, securing it as I saw with bolt
and lock. Then just glancing around, she made

her way to the cabinet, and with a key she produced shot back the wards. I did not stir, I

scarcely breathed, and yet she seemed uneasy.
Whatever she wanted to do she evidently was in
haste to finish, for she took out the drawers one
by one, and placed them on the floor ; then , as
the light grew better, I saw her first kneel on
the floor, and peer into every aperture, and subsequently repeat the same process, standing on a
chair she drew forward for the purpose. A
slight lithe woman, not a lady, clad all in black
-not a bit of white about her. What on earth
could she want ? In a moment it flashed upon
me-THE WILL AND THE LETTER ! SHE IS SEARCHI-
ING FOR THEM.
I sprang from my concealment -I had her in

my grasp ; but she tore herself out of my hands ,
fighting like a wild -cat she bit, scratched ,
kicked , shifting her body as though she had not
a bone in it, and at last slipped herself free , and
ran wildly towards the door by which she
had entered .
If she reached it, she would escape me. I

rushed across the room and just caught her
dress as she was on the threshold . My blood
was up, and I dragged her back : she had the
strength of twenty devils, I think, and struggled
as surely no woman ever did before .
"I do not want to kill you," I managed to

THE OPEN DOOR. ΙΟΙ

say in gasps-" but I will if you do not keep
quiet."
" Bah ! " she cried ; and before I knew what
she was doing she had the revolver out of my
pocket and fired .
She missed the ball just glanced off my
sleeve. I fell upon her- I can use no other expression, for it had become a fight for life, and
no man can tell the ferocity there is in him till
he is placed as I was then-fell upon her, and
seized the weapon . She would not let it go , but
I held her so tight she could not use it. She bit
my face ; with her disengaged hand she tore my
hair. She turned and twisted and slipped about
like a snake, but I did not feel pain or anything
except a deadly horror lest my strength should
give out.
Could I hold out much longer ? She made
one desperate plunge, I felt the grasp with
which I held her slackening ; she felt it too, and
seizing her advantage tore herself free, and at
the same instant fired again blindly, and again
missed.
Suddenly there came a look of horror into
her eyes-a frozen expression of fear.
" See ! " she cried ; and flinging the revolver
at me, fled .
I saw, as in a momentary flash , that the door
I had beheld locked , stood wide-that there

stood beside the table an awful figure, with uplifted hand- and then I saw no more . I was
struck at last ; as she threw the revolver at me
she must have pulled the trigger, for I felt something like red-hot iron enter my shoulder , and I
could but rush from the room before I fell
senseless on the marble pavement of the hall .
When the postman came that morning, finding
no one stirring, he looked through one of the
long windows that flanked the door ; then he
ran to the farm-yard and called for help.
" There is something wrong inside," he cried .
" That young gentleman is lying on the floor in
a pool of blood."
As they rushed round to the front of the
house they saw Lord Ladlow riding up the
avenue, and breathlessly told him what had
happened.
" Smash in one of the windows." he said ;
"and go instantly for a doctor."
They laid me on the bed in that terrible room ,
and telegraphed for my father. For long I
hovered between life and death, but at length I
recovered sufficiently to be removed to the house
Lord Ladlow owned on the other side of the
Hollow.

Before that time I had told him all I knew,
and begged him to make instant search for the
will.

" Break up the cabinet if necessary," I en
treated, " I am sure the papers are there."
And they were. His lordship got his own,
and as to the scandal and the crime, one was
hushed up and the other remained unpunished.
The dowager and her maid went abroad the very
morning I lay on the marble pavement at Ladlow
Hall-they never returned .
My lord made that one condition of his silence .
Not in Meadowshire, but in a fairer county
still, I have a farm which I manage , and make
both ends meet comfortably.
Patty is the best wife any man ever possessed
-and I-well, I am just as happy, if a triffe
more serious than of old ; but there are times
when a great horror of darkness seems to fall
upon me, and at such periods I cannot endure to
be left alone.
