THE DEAD SMILE

CHAPTER I

Sir Hugh Ockram smiled as he sat by the open window of his study, in the
late August afternoon; and just then a curiously yellow cloud obscured
the low sun, and the clear summer light turned lurid, as if it had been
suddenly poisoned and polluted by the foul vapours of a plague. Sir
Hugh's face seemed, at best, to be made of fine parchment drawn
skin-tight over a wooden mask, in which two eyes were sunk out of sight,
and peered from far within through crevices under the slanting, wrinkled
lids, alive and watchful like two toads in their holes, side by side and
exactly alike. But as the light changed, then a little yellow glare
flashed in each. Nurse Macdonald said once that when Sir Hugh smiled he
saw the faces of two women in hell--two dead women he had betrayed.
(Nurse Macdonald was a hundred years old.) And the smile widened,
stretching the pale lips across the discoloured teeth in an expression
of profound self-satisfaction, blended with the most unforgiving hatred
and contempt for the human doll. The hideous disease of which he was
dying had touched his brain. His son stood beside him, tall, white and
delicate as an angel in a primitive picture; and though there was deep
distress in his violet eyes as he looked at his father's face, he felt
the shadow of that sickening smile stealing across his own lips and
parting them and drawing them against his will. And it was like a bad
dream, for he tried not to smile and smiled the more. Beside him,
strangely like him in her wan, angelic beauty, with the same shadowy
golden hair, the same sad violet eyes, the same luminously pale face,
Evelyn Warburton rested one hand upon his arm. And as she looked into
her uncle's eyes, and could not turn her own away, she knew that the
deathly smile was hovering on her own red lips, drawing them tightly
across her little teeth, while two bright tears ran down her cheeks to
her mouth, and dropped from the upper to the lower lip while she
smiled--and the smile was like the shadow of death and the seal of
damnation upon her pure, young face.

"Of course," said Sir Hugh very slowly, and still looking out at the
trees, "if you have made up your mind to be married, I cannot hinder
you, and I don't suppose you attach the smallest importance to my
consent----"

"Father!" exclaimed Gabriel reproachfully.

"No; I do not deceive myself," continued the old man, smiling terribly.
"You will marry when I am dead, though there is a very good reason why
you had better not--why you had better not," he repeated very
emphatically, and he slowly turned his toad eyes upon the lovers.

"What reason?" asked Evelyn in a frightened voice.

"Never mind the reason, my dear. You will marry just as if it did not
exist." There was a long pause. "Two gone," he said, his voice lowering
strangely, "and two more will be four--all together--for ever and ever,
burning, burning, burning bright."

At the last words his head sank slowly back, and the little glare of the
toad eyes disappeared under the swollen lids; and the lurid cloud passed
from the westering sun, so that the earth was green again and the light
pure. Sir Hugh had fallen asleep, as he often did in his last illness,
even while speaking.

Gabriel Ockram drew Evelyn away, and from the study they went out into
the dim hall, softly closing the door behind them, and each audibly drew
breath, as though some sudden danger had been passed. They laid their
hands each in the other's, and their strangely-like eyes met in a long
look, in which love and perfect understanding were darkened by the
secret terror of an unknown thing. Their pale faces reflected each
other's fear.

"It is his secret," said Evelyn at last. "He will never tell us what it
is."

"If he dies with it," answered Gabriel, "let it be on his own head!"

"On his head!" echoed the dim hall. It was a strange echo, and some were
frightened by it, for they said that if it were a real echo it should
repeat everything and not give back a phrase here and there, now
speaking, now silent. But Nurse Macdonald said that the great hall would
never echo a prayer when an Ockram was to die, though it would give back
curses ten for one.

"On his head!" it repeated quite softly, and Evelyn started and looked
round.

"It is only the echo," said Gabriel, leading her away.

They went out into the late afternoon light, and sat upon a stone seat
behind the chapel, which was built across the end of the east wing. It
was very still, not a breath stirred, and there was no sound near them.
Only far off in the park a song-bird was whistling the high prelude to
the evening chorus.

"It is very lonely here," said Evelyn, taking Gabriel's hand nervously,
and speaking as if she dreaded to disturb the silence. "If it were dark,
I should be afraid."

"Of what? Of me?" Gabriel's sad eyes turned to her.

"Oh no! How could I be afraid of you? But of the old Ockrams--they say
they are just under our feet here in the north vault outside the chapel,
all in their shrouds, with no coffins, as they used to bury them."

"As they always will--as they will bury my father, and me. They say an
Ockram will not lie in a coffin."

"But it cannot be true--these are fairy tales--ghost stories!" Evelyn
nestled nearer to her companion, grasping his hand more tightly, and the
sun began to go down.

"Of course. But there is the story of old Sir Vernon, who was beheaded
for treason under James II. The family brought his body back from the
scaffold in an iron coffin with heavy locks, and they put it in the
north vault. But ever afterwards, whenever the vault was opened to bury
another of the family, they found the coffin wide open, and the body
standing upright against the wall, and the head rolled away in a corner,
smiling at it."

"As Uncle Hugh smiles?" Evelyn shivered.

"Yes, I suppose so," answered Gabriel, thoughtfully. "Of course I never
saw it, and the vault has not been opened for thirty years--none of us
have died since then."

"And if--if Uncle Hugh dies--shall you----" Evelyn stopped, and her
beautiful thin face was quite white.

"Yes. I shall see him laid there too--with his secret, whatever it is."
Gabriel sighed and pressed the girl's little hand.

"I do not like to think of it," she said unsteadily. "O Gabriel, what
can the secret be? He said we had better not marry--not that he forbade
it--but he said it so strangely, and he smiled--ugh!" Her small white
teeth chattered with fear, and she looked over her shoulder while
drawing still closer to Gabriel. "And, somehow, I felt it in my own
face--"

"So did I," answered Gabriel in a low, nervous voice. "Nurse
Macdonald----" He stopped abruptly.

"What? What did she say?"

"Oh--nothing. She has told me things--they would frighten you, dear.
Come, it is growing chilly." He rose, but Evelyn held his hand in both
of hers, still sitting and looking up into his face.

"But we shall be married, just the same--Gabriel! Say that we shall!"

"Of course, darling--of course. But while my father is so very ill, it
is impossible----"

"O Gabriel, Gabriel, dear! I wish we were married now!" cried Evelyn in
sudden distress. "I know that something will prevent it and keep us
apart."

"Nothing shall!"

"Nothing?"

"Nothing human," said Gabriel Ockram, as she drew him down to her.

And their faces, that were so strangely alike, met and touched--and
Gabriel knew that the kiss had a marvellous savour of evil, but on
Evelyn's lips it was like the cool breath of a sweet and mortal fear.
And neither of them understood, for they were innocent and young. Yet
she drew him to her by her lightest touch, as a sensitive plant shivers
and waves its thin leaves, and bends and closes softly upon what it
wants; and he let himself be drawn to her willingly, as he would if her
touch had been deadly and poisonous; for she strangely loved that half
voluptuous breath of fear, and he passionately desired the nameless evil
something that lurked in her maiden lips.

"It is as if we loved in a strange dream," she said.

"I fear the waking," he murmured.

"We shall not wake, dear--when the dream is over it will have already
turned into death, so softly that we shall not know it. But until
then----"

She paused, and her eyes sought his, and their faces slowly came nearer.
It was as if they had thoughts in their red lips that foresaw and
foreknew the deep kiss of each other.

"Until then----" she said again, very low, and her mouth was nearer to
his.

"Dream--till then," murmured his breath.

CHAPTER II

Nurse Macdonald was a hundred years old. She used to sleep sitting all
bent together in a great old leathern arm-chair with wings, her feet in
a bag footstool lined with sheepskin, and many warm blankets wrapped
about her, even in summer. Beside her a little lamp always burned at
night by an old silver cup, in which there was something to drink.

Her face was very wrinkled, but the wrinkles were so small and fine and
near together that they made shadows instead of lines. Two thin locks of
hair, that was turning from white to a smoky yellow again, were drawn
over her temples from under her starched white cap. Every now and then
she woke, and her eyelids were drawn up in tiny folds like little pink
silk curtains, and her queer blue eyes looked straight before her
through doors and walls and worlds to a far place beyond. Then she slept
again, and her hands lay one upon the other on the edge of the blanket;
the thumbs had grown longer than the fingers with age, and the joints
shone in the low lamplight like polished crab-apples.

It was nearly one o'clock in the night, and the summer breeze was
blowing the ivy branch against the panes of the window with a hushing
caress. In the small room beyond, with the door ajar, the girl-maid who
took care of Nurse Macdonald was fast asleep. All was very quiet. The
old woman breathed regularly, and her indrawn lips trembled each time as
the breath went out, and her eyes were shut.

But outside the closed window there was a face, and violet eyes were
looking steadily at the ancient sleeper, for it was like the face of
Evelyn Warburton, though there were eighty feet from the sill of the
window to the foot of the tower. Yet the cheeks were thinner than
Evelyn's, and as white as a gleam, and the eyes stared, and the lips
were not red with life; they were dead, and painted with new blood.

Slowly Nurse Macdonald's wrinkled eyelids folded themselves back, and
she looked straight at the face at the window while one might count ten.

"Is it time?" she asked in her little old, faraway voice.

While she looked the face at the window changed, for the eyes opened
wider and wider till the white glared all round the bright violet, and
the bloody lips opened over gleaming teeth, and stretched and widened
and stretched again, and the shadowy golden hair rose and streamed
against the window in the night breeze. And in answer to Nurse
Macdonald's question came the sound that freezes the living flesh.

That low-moaning voice that rises suddenly, like the scream of storm,
from a moan to a wail, from a wail to a howl, from a howl to the
fear-shriek of the tortured dead--he who has heard knows, and he can
bear witness that the cry of the banshee is an evil cry to hear alone in
the deep night. When it was over and the face was gone, Nurse Macdonald
shook a little in her great chair, and still she looked at the black
square of the window, but there was nothing more there, nothing but the
night, and the whispering ivy branch. She turned her head to the door
that was ajar, and there stood the girl in her white gown, her teeth
chattering with fright.

"It is time, child," said Nurse Macdonald. "I must go to him, for it is
the end."

She rose slowly, leaning her withered hands upon the arms of the chair,
and the girl brought her a woollen gown and a great mantle, and her
crutch-stick, and made her ready. But very often the girl looked at the
window and was unjointed with fear, and often Nurse Macdonald shook her
head and said words which the maid could not understand.

"It was like the face of Miss Evelyn," said the girl at last, trembling.

But the ancient woman looked up sharply and angrily, and her queer blue
eyes glared. She held herself by the arm of the great chair with her
left hand, and lifted up her crutch-stick to strike the maid with all
her might. But she did not.

"You are a good girl," she said, "but you are a fool. Pray for wit,
child, pray for wit--or else find service in another house than Ockram
Hall. Bring the lamp and help me under my left arm."

The crutch-stick clacked on the wooden floor, and the low heels of the
woman's slippers clappered after her in slow triplets, as Nurse
Macdonald got toward the door. And down the stairs each step she took
was a labour in itself, and by the clacking noise the waking servants
knew that she was coming, very long before they saw her.

No one was sleeping now, and there were lights, and whisperings, and
pale faces in the corridors near Sir Hugh's bedroom, and now some one
went in, and now some one came out, but every one made way for Nurse
Macdonald, who had nursed Sir Hugh's father more than eighty years ago.

The light was soft and clear in the room. There stood Gabriel Ockram by
his father's bedside, and there knelt Evelyn Warburton, her hair lying
like a golden shadow down her shoulders, and her hands clasped nervously
together. And opposite Gabriel, a nurse was trying to make Sir Hugh
drink. But he would not, and though his lips were parted, his teeth were
set. He was very, very thin and yellow now, and his eyes caught the
light sideways and were as yellow coals.

"Do not torment him," said Nurse Macdonald to the woman who held the
cup. "Let me speak to him, for his hour is come."

"Let her speak to him," said Gabriel in a dull voice.

So the ancient woman leaned to the pillow and laid the feather-weight of
her withered hand, that was like a brown moth, upon Sir Hugh's yellow
fingers, and she spoke to him earnestly, while only Gabriel and Evelyn
were left in the room to hear.

"Hugh Ockram," she said, "this is the end of your life; and as I saw you
born, and saw your father born before you, I am come to see you die.
Hugh Ockram, will you tell me the truth?"

The dying man recognised the little faraway voice he had known all his
life, and he very slowly turned his yellow face to Nurse Macdonald; but
he said nothing. Then she spoke again.

"Hugh Ockram, you will never see the daylight again. Will you tell the
truth?"

His toad-like eyes were not yet dull. They fastened themselves on her
face.

"What do you want of me?" he asked, and each word struck hollow upon the
last. "I have no secrets. I have lived a good life."

Nurse Macdonald laughed--a tiny, cracked laugh, that made her old head
bob and tremble a little, as if her neck were on a steel spring. But Sir
Hugh's eyes grew red, and his pale lips began to twist.

"Let me die in peace," he said slowly.

But Nurse Macdonald shook her head, and her brown, moth-like hand left
his and fluttered to his forehead.

"By the mother that bore you and died of grief for the sins you did,
tell me the truth!"

Sir Hugh's lips tightened on his discoloured teeth.

"Not on earth," he answered slowly.

"By the wife who bore your son and died heartbroken, tell me the truth!"

"Neither to you in life, nor to her in eternal death."

His lips writhed, as if the words were coals between them, and a great
drop of sweat rolled across the parchment of his forehead. Gabriel
Ockram bit his hand as he watched his father die. But Nurse Macdonald
spoke a third time.

"By the woman whom you betrayed, and who waits for you this night, Hugh
Ockram, tell me the truth!"

"It is too late. Let me die in peace."

The writhing lips began to smile across the set yellow teeth, and the
toad eyes glowed like evil jewels in his head.

"There is time," said the ancient woman. "Tell me the name of Evelyn
Warburton's father. Then I will let you die in peace."

Evelyn started back, kneeling as she was, and stared at Nurse Macdonald,
and then at her uncle.

"The name of Evelyn's father?" he repeated slowly, while the awful
smile spread upon his dying face.

The light was growing strangely dim in the great room. As Evelyn looked,
Nurse Macdonald's crooked shadow on the wall grew gigantic. Sir Hugh's
breath came thick, rattling in his throat, as death crept in like a
snake and choked it back. Evelyn prayed aloud, high and clear.

Then something rapped at the window, and she felt her hair rise upon her
head in a cool breeze, as she looked around in spite of herself. And
when she saw her own white face looking in at the window, and her own
eyes staring at her through the glass, wide and fearful, and her own
hair streaming against the pane, and her own lips dashed with blood, she
rose slowly from the floor and stood rigid for one moment, till she
screamed once and fell straight back into Gabriel's arms. But the shriek
that answered hers was the fear-shriek of the tormented corpse, out of
which the soul cannot pass for shame of deadly sins, though the devils
fight in it with corruption, each for their due share.

Sir Hugh Ockram sat upright in his deathbed, and saw and cried aloud:

"Evelyn!" His harsh voice broke and rattled in his chest as he sank
down. But still Nurse Macdonald tortured him, for there was a little
life left in him still.

"You have seen the mother as she waits for you, Hugh Ockram. Who was
this girl Evelyn's father? What was his name?"

For the last time the dreadful smile came upon the twisted lips, very
slowly, very surely now, and the toad eyes glared red, and the parchment
face glowed a little in the flickering light. For the last time words
came.

"They know it in hell."

Then the glowing eyes went out quickly, the yellow face turned waxen
pale, and a great shiver ran through the thin body as Hugh Ockram died.

But in death he still smiled, for he knew his secret and kept it still,
on the other side, and he would take it with him, to lie with him for
ever in the north vault of the chapel where the Ockrams lie uncoffined
in their shrouds--all but one. Though he was dead, he smiled, for he had
kept his treasure of evil truth to the end, and there was none left to
tell the name he had spoken, but there was all the evil he had not
undone left to bear fruit.

As they watched--Nurse Macdonald and Gabriel, who held Evelyn still
unconscious in his arms while he looked at the father--they felt the
dead smile crawling along their own lips--the ancient crone and the
youth with the angel's face. Then they shivered a little, and both
looked at Evelyn as she lay with her head on his shoulder, and, though
she was very beautiful, the same sickening smile was twisting her young
mouth too, and it was like the foreshadowing of a great evil which they
could not understand.

But by and by they carried Evelyn out, and she opened her eyes and the
smile was gone. From far away in the great house the sound of weeping
and crooning came up the stairs and echoed along the dismal corridors,
for the women had begun to mourn the dead master, after the Irish
fashion, and the hall had echoes of its own all that night, like the
far-off wail of the banshee among forest trees.

When the time was come they took Sir Hugh in his winding-sheet on a
trestle bier, and bore him to the chapel and through the iron door and
down the long descent to the north vault, with tapers, to lay him by his
father. And two men went in first to prepare the place, and came back
staggering like drunken men, and white, leaving their lights behind
them.

But Gabriel Ockram was not afraid, for he knew. And he went in alone and
saw that the body of Sir Vernon Ockram was leaning upright against the
stone wall, and that its head lay on the ground near by with the face
turned up, and the dried leathern lips smiled horribly at the dried-up
corpse, while the iron coffin, lined with black velvet, stood open on
the floor.

Then Gabriel took the thing in his hands, for it was very light, being
quite dried by the air of the vault, and those who peeped in from the
door saw him lay it in the coffin again, and it rustled a little, like a
bundle of reeds, and sounded hollow as it touched the sides and the
bottom. He also placed the head upon the shoulders and shut down the
lid, which fell to with a rusty spring that snapped.

After that they laid Sir Hugh beside his father, with the trestle bier
on which they had brought him, and they went back to the chapel.

But when they saw one another's faces, master and men, they were all
smiling with the dead smile of the corpse they had left in the vault, so
that they could not bear to look at one another until it had faded away.

CHAPTER III

Gabriel Ockram became Sir Gabriel, inheriting the baronetcy with the
half-ruined fortune left by his father, and still Evelyn Warburton lived
at Ockram Hall, in the south room that had been hers ever since she
could remember anything. She could not go away, for there were no
relatives to whom she could have gone, and, besides, there seemed to be
no reason why she should not stay. The world would never trouble itself
to care what the Ockrams did on their Irish estates, and it was long
since the Ockrams had asked anything of the world.

So Sir Gabriel took his father's place at the dark old table in the
dining-room, and Evelyn sat opposite to him, until such time as their
mourning should be over, and they might be married at last. And
meanwhile their lives went on as before, since Sir Hugh had been a
hopeless invalid during the last year of his life, and they had seen him
but once a day for a little while, spending most of their time together
in a strangely perfect companionship.

But though the late summer saddened into autumn, and autumn darkened
into winter, and storm followed storm, and rain poured on rain through
the short days and the long nights, yet Ockram Hall seemed less gloomy
since Sir Hugh had been laid in the north vault beside his father. And
at Christmastide Evelyn decked the great hall with holly and green
boughs, and huge fires blazed on every hearth. Then the tenants were all
bidden to a New Year's dinner, and they ate and drank well, while Sir
Gabriel sat at the head of the table. Evelyn came in when the port wine
was brought, and the most respected of the tenants made a speech to
propose her health.

It was long, he said, since there had been a Lady Ockram. Sir Gabriel
shaded his eyes with his hand and looked down at the table, but a faint
colour came into Evelyn's transparent cheeks. But, said the grey-haired
farmer, it was longer still since there had been a Lady Ockram so fair
as the next was to be, and he gave the health of Evelyn Warburton.

Then the tenants all stood up and shouted for her, and Sir Gabriel stood
up likewise, beside Evelyn. And when the men gave the last and loudest
cheer of all there was a voice not theirs, above them all, higher,
fiercer, louder--a scream not earthly, shrieking for the bride of Ockram
Hall. And the holly and the green boughs over the great chimney-piece
shook and slowly waved as if a cool breeze were blowing over them. But
the men turned very pale, and many of them set down their glasses, but
others let them fall upon the floor for fear. And looking into one
another's faces, they were all smiling strangely, a dead smile, like
dead Sir Hugh's. One cried out words in Irish, and the fear of death was
suddenly upon them all, so that they fled in panic, falling over one
another like wild beasts in the burning forest, when the thick smoke
runs along before the flame; and the tables were over-set, and drinking
glasses and bottles were broken in heaps, and the dark red wine crawled
like blood upon the polished floor.

Sir Gabriel and Evelyn stood alone at the head of the table before the
wreck of the feast, not daring to turn to see each other, for each knew
that the other smiled. But his right arm held her and his left hand
clasped her right as they stared before them; and but for the shadows of
her hair one might not have told their two faces apart. They listened
long, but the cry came not again, and the dead smile faded from their
lips, while each remembered that Sir Hugh Ockram lay in the north vault,
smiling in his winding-sheet, in the dark, because he had died with his
secret.

So ended the tenants' New Year's dinner. But from that time on Sir
Gabriel grew more and more silent, and his face grew even paler and
thinner than before. Often, without warning and without words, he would
rise from his seat, as if something moved him against his will, and he
would go out into the rain or the sunshine to the north side of the
chapel, and sit on the stone bench, staring at the ground as if he could
see through it, and through the vault below, and through the white
winding-sheet in the dark, to the dead smile that would not die.

Always when he went out in that way Evelyn came out presently and sat
beside him. Once, too, as in summer, their beautiful faces came suddenly
near, and their lids drooped, and their red lips were almost joined
together. But as their eyes met, they grew wide and wild, so that the
white showed in a ring all round the deep violet, and their teeth
chattered, and their hands were like hands of corpses, each in the
other's, for the terror of what was under their feet, and of what they
knew but could not see.

Once, also, Evelyn found Sir Gabriel in the chapel alone, standing
before the iron door that led down to the place of death, and in his
hand there was the key to the door; but he had not put it into the lock.
Evelyn drew him away, shivering, for she had also been driven in waking
dreams to see that terrible thing again, and to find out whether it had
changed since it had lain there.

"I'm going mad," said Sir Gabriel, covering his eyes with his hand as
he went with her. "I see it in my sleep, I see it when I am awake--it
draws me to it, day and night--and unless I see it I shall die!"

"I know," answered Evelyn, "I know. It is as if threads were spun from
it, like a spider's, drawing us down to it." She was silent for a
moment, and then she started violently and grasped his arm with a man's
strength, and almost screamed the words she spoke. "But we must not go
there!" she cried. "We must not go!"

Sir Gabriel's eyes were half shut, and he was not moved by the agony of
her face.

"I shall die, unless I see it again," he said, in a quiet voice not like
his own. And all that day and that evening he scarcely spoke, thinking
of it, always thinking, while Evelyn Warburton quivered from head to
foot with a terror she had never known.

She went alone, on a grey winter's morning, to Nurse Macdonald's room in
the tower, and sat down beside the great leathern easy-chair, laying her
thin white hand upon the withered fingers.

"Nurse," she said, "what was it that Uncle Hugh should have told you,
that night before he died? It must have been an awful secret--and yet,
though you asked him, I feel somehow that you know it, and that you know
why he used to smile so dreadfully."

The old woman's head moved slowly from side to side.

"I only guess--I shall never know," she answered slowly in her cracked
little voice.

"But what do you guess? Who am I? Why did you ask who my father was? You
know I am Colonel Warburton's daughter, and my mother was Lady Ockram's
sister, so that Gabriel and I are cousins. My father was killed in
Afghanistan. What secret can there be?"

"I do not know. I can only guess."

"Guess what?" asked Evelyn imploringly, and pressing the soft withered
hands, as she leaned forward. But Nurse Macdonald's wrinkled lids
dropped suddenly over her queer blue eyes, and her lips shook a little
with her breath, as if she were asleep.

Evelyn waited. By the fire the Irish maid was knitting fast, and the
needles clicked like three or four clocks ticking against each other.
And the real clock on the wall solemnly ticked alone, checking off the
seconds of the woman who was a hundred years old, and had not many days
left. Outside the ivy branch beat the window in the wintry blast, as it
had beaten against the glass a hundred years ago.

Then as Evelyn sat there she felt again the waking of a horrible
desire--the sickening wish to go down, down to the thing in the north
vault, and to open the winding-sheet, and see whether it had changed;
and she held Nurse Macdonald's hands as if to keep herself in her place
and fight against the appalling attraction of the evil dead.

But the old cat that kept Nurse Macdonald's feet warm, lying always on
the bag footstool, got up and stretched itself, and looked up into
Evelyn's eyes, while its back arched, and its tail thickened and
bristled, and its ugly pink lips drew back in a devilish grin, showing
its sharp teeth. Evelyn stared at it, half fascinated by its ugliness.
Then the creature suddenly put out one paw with all its claws spread,
and spat at the girl, and all at once the grinning cat was like the
smiling corpse far down below, so that Evelyn shivered down to her small
feet, and covered her face with her free hand, lest Nurse Macdonald
should wake and see the dead smile there, for she could feel it.

The old woman had already opened her eyes again, and she touched her cat
with the end of her crutch-stick, whereupon its back went down and its
tail shrunk, and it sidled back to its place on the bag footstool. But
its yellow eyes looked up sideways at Evelyn, between the slits of its
lids.

"What is it that you guess, nurse?" asked the young girl again.

"A bad thing--a wicked thing. But I dare not tell you, lest it might not
be true, and the very thought should blast your life. For if I guess
right, he meant that you should not know, and that you two should marry,
and pay for his old sin with your souls."

"He used to tell us that we ought not to marry----"

"Yes--he told you that, perhaps--but it was as if a man put poisoned
meat before a starving beast, and said 'do not eat,' but never raised
his hand to take the meat away. And if he told you that you should not
marry, it was because he hoped you would; for of all men living or dead,
Hugh Ockram was the falsest man that ever told a cowardly lie, and the
cruelest that ever hurt a weak woman, and the worst that ever loved a
sin."

"But Gabriel and I love each other," said Evelyn very sadly.

Nurse Macdonald's old eyes looked far away, at sights seen long ago, and
that rose in the grey winter air amid the mists of an ancient youth.

"If you love, you can die together," she said, very slowly. "Why should
you live, if it is true? I am a hundred years old. What has life given
me? The beginning is fire; the end is a heap of ashes; and between the
end and the beginning lies all the pain of the world. Let me sleep,
since I cannot die."

Then the old woman's eyes closed again, and her head sank a little lower
upon her breast.

So Evelyn went away and left her asleep, with the cat asleep on the bag
footstool; and the young girl tried to forget Nurse Macdonald's words,
but she could not, for she heard them over and over again in the wind,
and behind her on the stairs. And as she grew sick with fear of the
frightful unknown evil to which her soul was bound, she felt a bodily
something pressing her, and pushing her, and forcing her on, and from
the other side she felt the threads that drew her mysteriously: and when
she shut her eyes, she saw in the chapel behind the altar, the low iron
door through which she must pass to go to the thing.

And as she lay awake at night, she drew the sheet over her face, lest
she should see shadows on the wall beckoning to her; and the sound of
her own warm breath made whisperings in her ears, while she held the
mattress with her hands, to keep from getting up and going to the
chapel. It would have been easier if there had not been a way thither
through the library, by a door which was never locked. It would be
fearfully easy to take her candle and go softly through the sleeping
house. And the key of the vault lay under the altar behind a stone that
turned. She knew the little secret. She could go alone and see.

But when she thought of it, she felt her hair rise on her head, and
first she shivered so that the bed shook, and then the horror went
through her in a cold thrill that was agony again, like myriads of icy
needles boring into her nerves.

CHAPTER IV

The old clock in Nurse Macdonald's tower struck midnight. From her room
she could hear the creaking chains and weights in their box in the
corner of the staircase, and overhead the jarring of the rusty lever
that lifted the hammer. She had heard it all her life. It struck eleven
strokes clearly, and then came the twelfth, with a dull half stroke, as
though the hammer were too weary to go on, and had fallen asleep against
the bell.

The old cat got up from the bag footstool and stretched itself, and
Nurse Macdonald opened her ancient eyes and looked slowly round the
room by the dim light of the night lamp. She touched the cat with her
crutch-stick, and it lay down upon her feet. She drank a few drops from
her cup and went to sleep again.

But downstairs Sir Gabriel sat straight up as the clock struck, for he
had dreamed a fearful dream of horror, and his heart stood still, till
he awoke at its stopping, and it beat again furiously with his breath,
like a wild thing set free. No Ockram had ever known fear waking, but
sometimes it came to Sir Gabriel in his sleep.

He pressed his hands to his temples as he sat up in bed, and his hands
were icy cold, but his head was hot. The dream faded far, and in its
place there came the master thought that racked his life; with the
thought also came the sick twisting of his lips in the dark that would
have been a smile. Far off, Evelyn Warburton dreamed that the dead smile
was on her mouth, and awoke, starting with a little moan, her face in
her hands, shivering.

But Sir Gabriel struck a light and got up and began to walk up and down
his great room. It was midnight, and he had barely slept an hour, and in
the north of Ireland the winter nights are long.

"I shall go mad," he said to himself, holding his forehead. He knew that
it was true. For weeks and months the possession of the thing had grown
upon him like a disease, till he could think of nothing without thinking
first of that. And now all at once it outgrew his strength, and he knew
that he must be its instrument or lose his mind--that he must do the
deed he hated and feared, if he could fear anything, or that something
would snap in his brain and divide him from life while he was yet alive.
He took the candlestick in his hand, the old-fashioned heavy candlestick
that had always been used by the head of the house. He did not think of
dressing, but went as he was, in his silk night clothes and his
slippers, and he opened the door. Everything was very still in the great
old house. He shut the door behind him and walked noiselessly on the
carpet through the long corridor. A cool breeze blew over his shoulder
and blew the flame of his candle straight out from him. Instinctively he
stopped and looked round, but all was still, and the upright flame
burned steadily. He walked on, and instantly a strong draught was behind
him, almost extinguishing the light. It seemed to blow him on his way,
ceasing whenever he turned, coming again when he went on--invisible,
icy.

Down the great staircase to the echoing hall he went, seeing nothing but
the flaring flame of the candle standing away from him over the
guttering wax, while the cold wind blew over his shoulder and through
his hair. On he passed through the open door into the library, dark with
old books and carved bookcases; on through the door in the shelves, with
painted shelves on it, and the imitated backs of books, so that one
needed to know where to find it--and it shut itself after him with a
soft click. He entered the low-arched passage, and though the door was
shut behind him and fitted tightly in its frame, still the cold breeze
blew the flame forward as he walked. And he was not afraid; but his face
was very pale, and his eyes were wide and bright, looking before him,
seeing already in the dark air the picture of the thing beyond. But in
the chapel he stood still, his hand on the little turning stone tablet
in the back of the stone altar. On the tablet were engraved words:
"_Clavis sepulchri Clarissimorum Dominorum De Ockram_"--("the key to the
vault of the most illustrious lords of Ockram"). Sir Gabriel paused and
listened. He fancied that he heard a sound far off in the great house
where all had been so still, but it did not come again. Yet he waited at
the last, and looked at the low iron door. Beyond it, down the long
descent, lay his father uncoffined, six months dead, corrupt, terrible
in his clinging shroud. The strangely preserving air of the vault could
not yet have done its work completely. But on the thing's ghastly
features, with their half-dried, open eyes, there would still be the
frightful smile with which the man had died--the smile that haunted----

As the thought crossed Sir Gabriel's mind, he felt his lips writhing,
and he struck his own mouth in wrath with the back of his hand so
fiercely that a drop of blood ran down his chin, and another, and more,
falling back in the gloom upon the chapel pavement. But still his
bruised lips twisted themselves. He turned the tablet by the simple
secret. It needed no safer fastening, for had each Ockram been coffined
in pure gold, and had the door been open wide, there was not a man in
Tyrone brave enough to go down to that place, saving Gabriel Ockram
himself, with his angel's face and his thin, white hands, and his sad
unflinching eyes. He took the great old key and set it into the lock of
the iron door; and the heavy, rattling noise echoed down the descent
beyond like footsteps, as if a watcher had stood behind the iron and
were running away within, with heavy dead feet. And though he was
standing still, the cool wind was from behind him, and blew the flame of
the candle against the iron panel. He turned the key.

Sir Gabriel saw that his candle was short. There were new ones on the
altar, with long candlesticks, and he lit one, and left his own burning
on the floor. As he set it down on the pavement his lip began to bleed
again, and another drop fell upon the stones.

He drew the iron door open and pushed it back against the chapel wall,
so that it should not shut of itself, while he was within; and the
horrible draught of the sepulchre came up out of the depths in his face,
foul and dark. He went in, but though the fetid air met him, yet the
flame of the tall candle was blown straight from him against the wind
while he walked down the easy incline with steady steps, his loose
slippers slapping the pavement as he trod.

He shaded the candle with his hand, and his fingers seemed to be made of
wax and blood as the light shone through them. And in spite of him the
unearthly draught forced the flame forward, till it was blue over the
black wick, and it seemed as if it must go out. But he went straight on,
with shining eyes.

The downward passage was wide, and he could not always see the walls by
the struggling light, but he knew when he was in the place of death by
the larger, drearier echo of his steps in the greater space, and by the
sensation of a distant blank wall. He stood still, almost enclosing the
flame of the candle in the hollow of his hand. He could see a little,
for his eyes were growing used to the gloom. Shadowy forms were outlined
in the dimness, where the biers of the Ockrams stood crowded together,
side by side, each with its straight, shrouded corpse, strangely
preserved by the dry air, like the empty shell that the locust sheds in
summer. And a few steps before him he saw clearly the dark shape of
headless Sir Vernon's iron coffin, and he knew that nearest to it lay
the thing he sought.

He was as brave as any of those dead men had been, and they were his
fathers, and he knew that sooner or later he should lie there himself,
beside Sir Hugh, slowly drying to a parchment shell. But he was still
alive, and he closed his eyes a moment, and three great drops stood on
his forehead.

Then he looked again, and by the whiteness of the winding-sheet he knew
his father's corpse, for all the others were brown with age; and,
moreover, the flame of the candle was blown toward it. He made four
steps till he reached it, and suddenly the light burned straight and
high, shedding a dazzling yellow glare upon the fine linen that was all
white, save over the face, and where the joined hands were laid on the
breast. And at those places ugly stains had spread, darkened with
outlines of the features and of the tight-clasped fingers. There was a
frightful stench of drying death.

As Sir Gabriel looked down, something stirred behind him, softly at
first, then more noisily, and something fell to the stone floor with a
dull thud and rolled up to his feet; he started back and saw a withered
head lying almost face upward on the pavement, grinning at him. He felt
the cold sweat standing on his face, and his heart beat painfully.

For the first time in all his life that evil thing which men call fear
was getting hold of him, checking his heart-strings as a cruel driver
checks a quivering horse, clawing at his backbone with icy hands,
lifting his hair with freezing breath, climbing up and gathering in his
midriff with leaden weight.

Yet presently he bit his lip and bent down, holding the candle in one
hand, to lift the shroud back from the head of the corpse with the
other. Slowly he lifted it. Then it clove to the half-dried skin of the
face, and his hand shook as if some one had struck him on the elbow, but
half in fear and half in anger at himself, he pulled it, so that it came
away with a little ripping sound. He caught his breath as he held it,
not yet throwing it back, and not yet looking. The horror was working in
him, and he felt that old Vernon Ockram was standing up in his iron
coffin, headless, yet watching him with the stump of his severed neck.

While he held his breath he felt the dead smile twisting his lips. In
sudden wrath at his own misery, he tossed the death-stained linen
backward, and looked at last. He ground his teeth lest he should shriek
aloud.

There it was, the thing that haunted him, that haunted Evelyn Warburton,
that was like a blight on all that came near him.

The dead face was blotched with dark stains, and the thin, grey hair was
matted about the discoloured forehead. The sunken lids were half open,
and the candle light gleamed on something foul where the toad eyes had
lived.

But yet the dead thing smiled, as it had smiled in life; the ghastly
lips were parted and drawn wide and tight upon the wolfish teeth,
cursing still, and still defying hell to do its worst--defying, cursing,
and always and for ever smiling alone in the dark.

Sir Gabriel opened the winding-sheet where the hands were, and the
blackened, withered fingers were closed upon something stained and
mottled. Shivering from head to foot, but fighting like a man in agony
for his life, he tried to take the package from the dead man's hold. But
as he pulled at it the claw-like fingers seemed to close more tightly,
and when he pulled harder the shrunken hands and arms rose from the
corpse with a horrible look of life following his motion--then as he
wrenched the sealed packet loose at last, the hands fell back into their
place still folded.

He set down the candle on the edge of the bier to break the seals from
the stout paper. And, kneeling on one knee, to get a better light, he
read what was within, written long ago in Sir Hugh's queer hand.

He was no longer afraid.

He read how Sir Hugh had written it all down that it might perchance be
a witness of evil and of his hatred; how he had loved Evelyn Warburton,
his wife's sister; and how his wife had died of a broken heart with his
curse upon her, and how Warburton and he had fought side by side in
Afghanistan, and Warburton had fallen; but Ockram had brought his
comrade's wife back a full year later, and little Evelyn, her child, had
been born in Ockram Hall. And next, how he had wearied of the mother,
and she had died like her sister with his curse on her. And then, how
Evelyn had been brought up as his niece, and how he had trusted that his
son Gabriel and his daughter, innocent and unknowing, might love and
marry, and the souls of the women he had betrayed might suffer another
anguish before eternity was out. And, last of all, he hoped that some
day, when nothing could be undone, the two might find his writing and
live on, not daring to tell the truth for their children's sake and the
world's word, man and wife.

This he read, kneeling beside the corpse in the north vault, by the
light of the altar candle; and when he had read it all, he thanked God
aloud that he had found the secret in time. But when he rose to his feet
and looked down at the dead face it was changed, and the smile was gone
from it for ever, and the jaw had fallen a little, and the tired, dead
lips were relaxed. And then there was a breath behind him and close to
him, not cold like that which had blown the flame of the candle as he
came, but warm and human. He turned suddenly.

There she stood, all in white, with her shadowy golden hair--for she had
risen from her bed and had followed him noiselessly, and had found him
reading, and had herself read over his shoulder. He started violently
when he saw her, for his nerves were unstrung--and then he cried out her
name in the still place of death:

"Evelyn!"

"My brother!" she answered softly and tenderly, putting out both hands
to meet his.
