THE LEGEND OF MADAME KRASINSKA.

It is a necessary part of this story to explain how I have come by it,
or rather, how it has chanced to have me for its writer.

I was very much impressed one day by a certain nun of the order calling
themselves Little Sisters of the Poor. I had been taken to these
sisters to support the recommendation of a certain old lady, the former
door-keeper of his studio, whom my friend Cecco Bandini wished to place
in the asylum. It turned out, of course, that Cecchino was perfectly
able to plead his case without my assistance; so I left him blandishing
the Mother Superior in the big, cheerful kitchen, and begged to be shown
over the rest of the establishment. The sister who was told off to
accompany me was the one of whom I would speak.

This lady was tall and slight; her figure, as she preceded me up the
narrow stairs and through the whitewashed wards, was uncommonly elegant
and charming; and she had a girlish rapidity of movement, which caused
me to experience a little shock at the first real sight which I caught
of her face. It was young and remarkably pretty, with a kind of
refinement peculiar to American women; but it was inexpressibly,
solemnly tragic; and one felt that under her tight linen cap, the hair
must be snow white. The tragedy, whatever it might have been, was now
over; and the lady's expression, as she spoke to the old creatures
scraping the ground in the garden, ironing the sheets in the laundry, or
merely huddling over their braziers in the chill winter sunshine, was
pathetic only by virtue of its strange present tenderness, and by that
trace of terrible past suffering.

She answered my questions very briefly, and was as taciturn as ladies of
religious communities are usually loquacious. Only, when I expressed my
admiration for the institution which contrived to feed scores of old
paupers on broken victuals begged from private houses and inns, she
turned her eyes full upon me and said, with an earnestness which was
almost passionate, "Ah, the old! The old! It is so much, much worse for
them than for any others. Have you ever tried to imagine what it is to
be poor and forsaken and old?"

These words and the strange ring in the sister's voice, the strange
light in her eyes, remained in my memory. What was not, therefore, my
surprise when, on returning to the kitchen, I saw her start and lay hold
of the back of the chair as soon as she caught sight of Cecco Bandini.
Cecco, on his side also, was visibly startled, but only after a moment;
it was clear that she recognised him long before he identified her. What
little romance could there exist in common between my eccentric painter
and that serene but tragic Sister of the Poor?

A week later, it became evident that Cecco Bandini had come to explain
the mystery; but to explain it (as I judged by the embarrassment of
his manner) by one of those astonishingly elaborate lies occasionally
attempted by perfectly frank persons. It was not the case. Cecchino had
come indeed to explain that little dumb scene which had passed between
him and the Little Sister of the Poor. He had come, however, not to
satisfy my curiosity, or to overcome my suspicions, but to execute a
commission which he had greatly at heart; to help, as he expressed it,
in the accomplishment of a good work by a real saint.

Of course, he explained, smiling that good smile under his black
eyebrows and white moustache, he did not expect me to believe very
literally the story which he had undertaken to get me to write. He only
asked, and the lady only wished, me, to write down her narrative without
any comments, and leave to the heart of the reader the decision about
its truth or falsehood.

For this reason, and the better to attain the object of appealing to
the profane, rather than to the religious, reader, I have abandoned the
order of narrative of the Little Sister of the Poor; and attempted to
turn her pious legend into a worldly story, as follows:--

I.

Cecco Bandini had just returned from the Maremma, to whose solitary
marshes and jungles he had fled in one of his fits of fury at the
stupidity and wickedness of the civilised world. A great many months
spent among buffaloes and wild boars, conversing only with those wild
cherry-trees, of whom he used whimsically to say, "they are such
good little folk," had sent him back with an extraordinary zest for
civilisation, and a comic tendency to find its products, human and
otherwise, extraordinary, picturesque, and suggestive. He was in this
frame of mind when there came a light rap on his door-slate; and two
ladies appeared on the threshold of his studio, with the shaven face and
cockaded hat of a tall footman over-topping them from behind. One of
them was unknown to our painter; the other was numbered among Cecchino's
very few grand acquaintances.

"Why haven't you been round to me yet, you savage?" she asked, advancing
quickly with a brusque hand-shake and a brusque bright gleam of eyes
and teeth, well-bred but audacious and a trifle ferocious. And dropping
on to a divan she added, nodding first at her companion and then at the
pictures all round, "I have brought my friend, Madame Krasinska, to see
your things," and she began poking with her parasol at the contents of a
gaping portfolio.

The Baroness Fosca--for such was her name--was one of the cleverest and
fastest ladies of the place, with a taste for art and ferociously frank
conversation. To Cecco Bandini, as she lay back among her furs on that
shabby divan of his, she appeared in the light of the modern Lucretia
Borgia, the tamed panther of fashionable life. "What an interesting
thing civilisation is!" he thought, watching her every movement with the
eyes of the imagination; "why, you might spend years among the wild folk
of the Maremma without meeting such a tremendous, terrible, picturesque,
powerful creature as this!"

Cecchino was so absorbed in the Baroness Fosca, who was in reality not
at all a Lucretia Borgia, but merely an impatient lady bent upon amusing
and being amused, that he was scarcely conscious of the presence of
her companion. He knew that she was very young, very pretty, and very
smart, and that he had made her his best bow, and offered her his least
rickety chair; for the rest, he sat opposite to his Lucretia Borgia of
modern life, who had meanwhile found a cigarette, and was puffing away
and explaining that she was about to give a fancy ball, which should be
the most _crane_, the only amusing thing, of the year.

"Oh," he exclaimed, kindling at the thought, "do let me design you a
dress all black and white and wicked green--you shall go as Deadly
Nightshade, as Belladonna Atropa----"

"Belladonna Atropa! why my ball is in comic costume" ... The Baroness
was answering contemptuously, when Cecchino's attention was suddenly
called to the other end of the studio by an exclamation on the part of
his other visitor.

"Do tell me all about her;--has she a name? Is she really a lunatic?"
asked the young lady who had been introduced as Madame Krasinska,
keeping a portfolio open with one hand, and holding up in the other a
coloured sketch she had taken from it.

"What have you got there? Oh, only the Sora Lena!" and Madame Fosca
reverted to the contemplation of the smoke-rings she was making.

"Tell me about her--Sora Lena, did you say?" asked the younger lady
eagerly.

She spoke French, but with a pretty little American accent, despite her
Polish name. She was very charming, Cecchino said to himself, a radiant
impersonation of youthful brightness and elegance as she stood there
in her long, silvery furs, holding the drawing with tiny, tight-gloved
hands, and shedding around her a vague, exquisite fragrance--no, not
a mere literal perfume, that would be far too coarse but something
personal akin to it.

"I have noticed her so often," she went on, with that silvery young
voice of hers; "she's mad, isn't she? And what did you say her name was?
Please tell me again."

Cecchino was delighted. "How true it is," he reflected, "that only
refinement, high-breeding, luxury can give people certain kinds of
sensitiveness, of rapid intuition! No woman of another class would have
picked out just that drawing, or would have been interested in it
without stupid laughter."

"Do you want to know the story of poor old Sora Lena?" asked Cecchino,
taking the sketch from Madame Krasinska's hand, and looking over it at
the charming, eager young face.

The sketch might have passed for a caricature; but anyone who had spent
so little as a week in Florence those six or seven years ago would have
recognised at once that it was merely a faithful portrait. For Sora
Lena--more correctly Signora Maddalena--had been for years and years one
of the most conspicuous sights of the town. In all weathers you might
have seen that hulking old woman, with her vague, staring, reddish
face, trudging through the streets or standing before shops, in her
extraordinary costume of thirty years ago, her enormous crinoline, on
which the silk skirt and ragged petticoat hung limply, her gigantic
coal-scuttle bonnet, shawl, prunella boots, and great muff or parasol;
one of several outfits, all alike, of that distant period, all alike
inexpressibly dirty and tattered. In all weathers you might have seen
her stolidly going her way, indifferent to stares and jibes, of which,
indeed, there were by this time comparatively few, so familiar had she
grown to staring, jibing Florence. In all weathers, but most noticeably
in the worst, as if the squalor of mud and rain had an affinity with
that sad, draggled, soiled, battered piece of human squalor, that
lamentable rag of half-witted misery.

"Do you want to know about Sora Lena?" repeated Cecco Bandini,
meditatively. They formed a strange, strange contrast, these two women,
the one in the sketch and the one standing before him. And there was to
him a pathetic whimsicalness in the interest which the one had excited
in the other. "How long has she been wandering about here? Why, as long
as I can remember the streets of Florence, and that," added Cecchino
sorrowfully, "is a longer while than I care to count up. It seems to
me as if she must always have been there, like the olive-trees and
the paving stones; for after all, Giotto's tower was not there before
Giotto, whereas poor old Sora Lena--But, by the way, there is a limit
even to her. There is a legend about her; they say that she was once
sane, and had two sons, who went as Volunteers in '59, and were killed
at Solferino, and ever since then she has sallied forth, every day,
winter or summer, in her best clothes, to meet the young fellows at the
Station. May be. To my mind it doesn't matter much whether the story
be true or false; it is fitting," and Cecco Bandini set about dusting
some canvases which had attracted the Baroness Fosca's attention. When
Cecchino was helping that lady into her furs, she gave one of her little
brutal smiles, and nodded in the direction of her companion.

"Madame Krasinska," she said laughing, "is very desirous of possessing
one of your sketches, but she is too polite to ask you the price of it.
That's what comes of our not knowing how to earn a penny for ourselves,
doesn't it, Signor Cecchino?"

Madame Krasinska blushed, and looked more young, and delicate, and
charming.

"I did not know whether you would consent to part with one of your
drawings," she said in her silvery, child-like voice,--"it is--this
one--which I should so much have liked to have--... to have ... bought."
Cecchino smiled at the embarrassment which the word "bought" produced in
his exquisite visitor. Poor, charming young creature, he thought; the
only thing she thinks people one knows can sell, is themselves, and
that's called getting married. "You must explain to your friend," said
Cecchino to the Baroness Fosca, as he hunted in a drawer for a piece of
clean paper, "that such rubbish as this is neither bought nor sold; it
is not even possible for a poor devil of a painter to offer it as a gift
to a lady--but,"--and he handed the little roll to Madame Krasinska,
making his very best bow as he did so--"it is possible for a lady
graciously to accept it."

"Thank you so much," answered Madame Krasinska, slipping the drawing
into her muff; "it is very good of you to give me such a ... such a
very interesting sketch," and she pressed his big, brown fingers in her
little grey-gloved hand.

"Poor Sora Lena!" exclaimed Cecchino, when there remained of the visit
only a faint perfume of exquisiteness; and he thought of the hideous old
draggle-tailed mad woman, reposing, rolled up in effigy, in the
delicious daintiness of that delicate grey muff.

II.

A fortnight later, the great event was Madame Fosca's fancy ball, to
which the guests were bidden to come in what was described as comic
costume. Some, however, craved leave to appear in their ordinary
apparel, and among these was Cecchino Bandini, who was persuaded,
moreover, that his old-fashioned swallow-tails, which he donned only
at weddings, constituted quite comic costume enough.

This knowledge did not interfere at all with his enjoyment. There was
even, to his whimsical mind, a certain charm in being in a crowd among
which he knew no one; unnoticed or confused, perhaps, with the waiters,
as he hung about the stairs and strolled through the big palace rooms.
It was as good as wearing an invisible cloak, one saw so much just
because one was not seen; indeed, one was momentarily endowed (it seemed
at least to his fanciful apprehension) with a faculty akin to that of
understanding the talk of birds; and, as he watched and listened he
became aware of innumerable charming little romances, which were
concealed from more notable but less privileged persons.

Little by little the big white and gold rooms began to fill. The ladies,
who had moved in gorgeous isolation, their skirts displayed as finely as
a peacock's train, became gradually visible only from the waist upwards;
and only the branches of the palm-trees and tree ferns detached
themselves against the shining walls. Instead of wandering among
variegated brocades and iridescent silks and astonishing arrangements of
feathers and flowers, Cecchino's eye was forced to a higher level by the
thickening crowd; it was now the constellated sparkle of diamonds on
neck and head which dazzled him, and the strange, unaccustomed splendour
of white arms and shoulders. And, as the room filled, the invisible
cloak was also drawn closer round our friend Cecchino, and the
extraordinary faculty of perceiving romantic and delicious secrets in
other folk's bosoms became more and more developed. They seemed to him
like exquisite children, these creatures rustling about in fantastic
dresses, powdered shepherds and shepherdesses with diamonds spirting
fire among their ribbons and top-knots; Japanese and Chinese embroidered
with sprays of flowers; mediaeval and antique beings, and beings hidden
in the plumage of birds, or the petals of flowers; children, but
children somehow matured, transfigured by the touch of luxury and
good-breeding, children full of courtesy and kindness. There were, of
course, a few costumes which might have been better conceived or better
carried out, or better--not to say best--omitted altogether. One grew
bored, after a little while, with people dressed as marionettes,
champagne bottles, sticks of sealing-wax, or captive balloons; a young
man arrayed as a female ballet dancer, and another got up as a wet
nurse, with baby _obligato_ might certainly have been dispensed with.
Also, Cecchino could not help wincing a little at the daughter of the
house being mummed and painted to represent her own grandmother, a
respectable old lady whose picture hung in the dining-room, and whose
spectacles he had frequently picked up in his boyhood. But these were
mere trifling details. And, as a whole, it was beautiful, fantastic.
So Cecchino moved backward and forward, invisible in his shabby black
suit, and borne hither and thither by the well-bred pressure of the
many-coloured crowd; pleasantly blinded by the innumerable lights,
the sparkle of chandelier pendants, and the shooting flames of jewels;
gently deafened by the confused murmur of innumerable voices, of
crackling stuffs and soughing fans, of distant dance music; and inhaling
the vague fragrance which seemed less the decoction of cunning perfumers
than the exquisite and expressive emanation of this exquisite bloom of
personality. Certainly, he said to himself, there is no pleasure so
delicious as seeing people amusing themselves with refinement: there is
a transfiguring magic, almost a moralising power, in wealth and elegance
and good-breeding.

He was making this reflection, and watching between two dances, a tiny
fluff of down sailing through the warm draught across the empty space,
the sort of whirlpool of the ball-room--when a little burst of voices
came from the entrance saloon. The multi-coloured costumes fluttered
like butterflies toward a given spot, there was a little heaping
together of brilliant colours and flashing jewels. There was much
craning of delicate, fluffy young necks and heads, and shuffle on
tiptoe, and the crowd fell automatically aside. A little gangway was
cleared; and there walked into the middle of the white and gold
drawing-room, a lumbering, hideous figure, with reddish, vacant face,
sunk in an immense, tarnished satin bonnet; and draggled, faded, lilac
silk skirts spread over a vast dislocated crinoline. The feet dabbed
along in the broken prunella boots; the mangy rabbit-skin muff bobbed
loosely with the shambling gait; and then, under the big chandelier,
there came a sudden pause, and the thing looked slowly round, a gaping,
mooning, blear-eyed stare.

It was the Sora Lena.

There was a perfect storm of applause.

III.

Cecchino Bandini did not slacken his pace till he found himself, with
his thin overcoat and opera hat all drenched, among the gas reflections
and puddles before his studio door; that shout of applause and that
burst of clapping pursuing him down the stairs of the palace and
all through the rainy streets. There were a few embers in his stove;
he threw a faggot on them, lit a cigarette, and proceeded to make
reflections, the wet opera hat still on his head. He had been a fool, a
savage. He had behaved like a child, rushing past his hostess with that
ridiculous speech in answer to her inquiries: "I am running away because
bad luck has entered your house."

Why had he not guessed it at once? What on earth else could she have
wanted his sketch for?

He determined to forget the matter, and, as he imagined, he forgot it.
Only, when the next day's evening paper displayed two columns describing
Madame Fosca's ball, and more particularly "that mask," as the reporter
had it, "which among so many which were graceful and ingenious, bore off
in triumph the palm for witty novelty," he threw the paper down and gave
it a kick towards the wood-box. But he felt ashamed of himself, picked
it up, smoothed it out and read it all--foreign news and home news, and
even the description of Madame Fosca's masked ball, conscientiously
through. Last of all he perused, with dogged resolution, the column of
petty casualties: a boy bit in the calf by a dog who was not mad; the
frustrated burgling of a baker's shop; even to the bunches of keys and
the umbrella and two cigar-cases picked up by the police, and consigned
to the appropriate municipal limbo; until he came to the following
lines: "This morning the _Guardians of Public Safety_, having been
called by the neighbouring inhabitants, penetrated into a room on the
top floor of a house situate in the Little Street of the Gravedigger
(Viccolo del Beccamorto), and discovered, hanging from a rafter, the
dead body of Maddalena X. Y. Z. The deceased had long been noted
throughout Florence for her eccentric habits and apparel." The paragraph
was headed, in somewhat larger type: "Suicide of a female lunatic."

Cecchino's cigarette had gone out, but he continued blowing at it all
the same. He could see in his mind's eye a tall, slender figure, draped
in silvery plush and silvery furs, standing by the side of an open
portfolio, and holding a drawing in her tiny hand, with the slender,
solitary gold bangle over the grey glove.

IV.

Madame Krasinska was in a very bad humour. The old Chanoiness, her
late husband's aunt, noticed it; her guests noticed it; her maid noticed
it: and she noticed it herself. For, of all human beings, Madame
Krasinska--Netta, as smart folk familiarly called her--was the least
subject to bad humour. She was as uniformly cheerful as birds are
supposed to be, and she certainly had none of the causes for anxiety or
sorrow which even the most proverbial bird must occasionally have. She
had always had money, health, good looks; and people had always told
her--in New York, in London, in Paris, Rome, and St. Petersburg--from
her very earliest childhood, that her one business in life was to amuse
herself. The old gentleman whom she had simply and cheerfully accepted
as a husband, because he had given her quantities of bonbons, and was
going to give her quantities of diamonds, had been kind, and had been
kindest of all in dying of sudden bronchitis when away for a month,
leaving his young widow with an affectionately indifferent recollection
of him, no remorse of any kind, and a great deal of money, not to speak
of the excellent Chanoiness, who constituted an invaluable chaperon.
And, since his happy demise, no cloud had disturbed the cheerful life
or feelings of Madame Krasinska. Other women, she knew, had innumerable
subjects of wretchedness; or if they had none, they were wretched from
the want of them. Some had children who made them unhappy, others were
unhappy for lack of children, and similarly as to lovers; but she had
never had a child and never had a lover, and never experienced the
smallest desire for either. Other women suffered from sleeplessness, or
from sleepiness, and took morphia or abstained from morphia with equal
inconvenience; other women also grew weary of amusement. But Madame
Krasinska always slept beautifully, and always stayed awake cheerfully;
and Madame Krasinska was never tired of amusing herself. Perhaps it was
all this which culminated in the fact that Madame Krasinska had never in
all her life envied or disliked anybody; and that no one, apparently,
had ever envied or disliked her. She did not wish to outshine or
supplant any one; she did not want to be richer, younger, more
beautiful, or more adored than they. She only wanted to amuse herself,
and she succeeded in so doing.

This particular day--the day after Madame Fosca's ball--Madame Krasinska
was not amusing herself. She was not at all tired: she never was;
besides, she had remained in bed till mid-day: neither was she unwell,
for that also she never was; nor had anyone done the slightest thing
to vex her. But there it was. She was not amusing herself at all. She
could not tell why; and she could not tell why, also, she was vaguely
miserable. When the first batch of afternoon callers had taken leave,
and the following batches had been sent away from the door, she threw
down her volume of Gyp, and walked to the window. It was raining: a
thin, continuous spring drizzle. Only a few cabs, with wet, shining
backs, an occasional lumbering omnibus or cart, passed by with wheezing,
straining, downcast horses. In one or two shops a light was appearing,
looking tiny, blear, and absurd in the gray afternoon. Madame Krasinska
looked out for a few minutes; then, suddenly turning round, she brushed
past the big palms and azaleas, and rang the bell.

"Order the brougham at once," she said.

She could by no means have explained what earthly reason had impelled
her to go out. When the footman had inquired for orders she felt at
a loss: certainly she did not want to go to see anyone, nor to buy
anything, nor to inquire about anything.

What _did_ she want? Madame Krasinska was not in the habit of driving
out in the rain for her pleasure; still less to drive out without
knowing whither. What did she want? She sat muffled in her furs, looking
out on the wet, grey streets as the brougham rolled aimlessly along. She
wanted--she wanted--she couldn't tell what. But she wanted it very much.
That much she knew very well--she wanted. The rain, the wet streets, the
muddy crossings--oh, how dismal they were! and still she wished to go
on.

Instinctively, her polite coachman made for the politer streets, for the
polite Lung' Arno. The river quay was deserted, and a warm, wet wind
swept lazily along its muddy flags. Madame Krasinska let down the glass.
How dreary! The foundry, on the other side, let fly a few red sparks
from its tall chimney into the grey sky; the water droned over the weir;
a lamp-lighter hurried along.

Madame Krasinska pulled the check-string.

"I want to walk," she said.

The polite footman followed behind along the messy flags, muddy and full
of pools; the brougham followed behind him. Madame Krasinska was not at
all in the habit of walking on the embankment, still less walking in the
rain.

After some minutes she got in again, and bade the carriage drive home.
When she got into the lit streets she again pulled the check-string and
ordered the brougham to proceed at a foot's pace. At a certain spot she
remembered something, and bade the coachman draw up before a shop. It
was the big chemist's.

"What does the Signora Contessa command?" and the footman raised his hat
over his ear. Somehow she had forgotten. "Oh," she answered, "wait a
minute. Now I remember, it's the next shop, the florist's. Tell them to
send fresh azaleas to-morrow and fetch away the old ones."

Now the azaleas had been changed only that morning. But the polite
footman obeyed. And Madame Krasinska remained for a minute, nestled in
her fur rug, looking on to the wet, yellow, lit pavement, and into the
big chemist's window. There were the red, heart-shaped chest protectors,
the frictioning gloves, the bath towels, all hanging in their place.
Then boxes of eau-de-Cologne, lots of bottles of all sizes, and boxes,
large and small, and variosities of indescribable nature and use, and
the great glass jars, yellow, blue, green, and ruby red, with a spark
from the gas lamp behind in their heart. She stared at it all, very
intently, and without a notion about any of these objects. Only she knew
that the glass jars were uncommonly bright, and that each had a ruby, or
topaz, or emerald of gigantic size, in its heart. The footman returned.

"Drive home," ordered Madame Krasinska. As her maid was taking her out
of her dress, a thought--the first since so long--flashed across her
mind, at the sight of certain skirts, and an uncouth cardboard mask,
lying in a corner of her dressing-room. How odd that she had not seen
the Sora Lena that evening.... She used always to be walking in the lit
streets at that hour.

V.

The next morning Madame Krasinska woke up quite cheerful and happy. But
she began, nevertheless, to suffer, ever since the day after the Fosca
ball, from the return of that quite unprecedented and inexplicable
depression. Her days became streaked, as it were, with moments during
which it was quite impossible to amuse herself; and these moments grew
gradually into hours. People bored her for no accountable reason, and
things which she had expected as pleasures brought with them a sense of
vague or more distinct wretchedness. Thus she would find herself in the
midst of a ball or dinner-party, invaded suddenly by a confused sadness
or boding of evil, she did not know which. And once, when a box of new
clothes had arrived from Paris, she was overcome, while putting on one
of the frocks, with such a fit of tears that she had to be put to bed
instead of going to the Tornabuoni's party.

Of course, people began to notice this change; indeed, Madame Krasinska
had ingenuously complained of the strange alteration in herself. Some
persons suggested that she might be suffering from slow blood-poisoning,
and urged an inquiry into the state of the drains. Others recommended
arsenic, morphia, or antipyrine. One kind friend brought her a box of
peculiar cigarettes; another forwarded a parcel of still more peculiar
novels; most people had some pet doctor to cry up to the skies; and one
or two suggested her changing her confessor; not to mention an attempt
being made to mesmerise her into cheerfulness.

When her back was turned, meanwhile, all the kind friends discussed the
probability of an unhappy love affair, loss of money on the Stock
Exchange, and similar other explanations. And while one devoted lady
tried to worm out of her the name of her unfaithful lover and of the
rival for whom he had forsaken her, another assured her that she was
suffering from a lack of personal affections. It was a fine opportunity
for the display of pietism, materialism, idealism, realism, psychological
lore, and esoteric theosophy.

Oddly enough, all this zeal about herself did not worry Madame
Krasinska, as she would certainly have expected it to worry any other
woman. She took a little of each of the tonic or soporific drugs; and
read a little of each of those sickly sentimental, brutal, or politely
improper novels. She also let herself be accompanied to various doctors;
and she got up early in the morning and stood for an hour on a chair
in a crowd in order to benefit by the preaching of the famous Father
Agostino. She was quite patient even with the friends who condoled about
the lover or absence of such. For all these things became, more and
more, completely indifferent to Madame Krasinska--unrealities which had
no weight in the presence of the painful reality.

This reality was that she was rapidly losing all power of amusing
herself, and that when she did occasionally amuse herself she had to pay
for what she called this _good time_ by an increase of listlessness and
melancholy.

It was not melancholy or listlessness such as other women complained of.
They seemed, in their fits of blues, to feel that the world around them
had got all wrong, or at least was going out of its way to annoy them.
But Madame Krasinska saw the world quite plainly, proceeding in the
usual manner, and being quite as good a world as before. It was she
who was all wrong. It was, in the literal sense of the words, what
she supposed people might mean when they said that So-and-so was _not
himself_; only that So-and-so, on examination, appeared to be very much
himself--only himself in a worse temper than usual. Whereas she... Why,
in her case, she really did not seem to be herself any longer. Once, at
a grand dinner, she suddenly ceased eating and talking to her neighbour,
and surprised herself wondering who the people all were and what they
had come for. Her mind would become, every now and then, a blank; a
blank at least full of vague images, misty and muddled, which she was
unable to grasp, but of which she knew that they were painful, weighing
on her as a heavy load must weigh on the head or back. Something had
happened, or was going to happen, she could not remember which, but she
burst into tears none the less. In the midst of such a state of things,
if visitors or a servant entered, she would ask sometimes who they were.
Once a man came to call, during one of these fits; by an effort she was
able to receive him and answer his small talk more or less at random,
feeling the whole time as if someone else were speaking in her place.
The visitor at length rose to depart, and they both stood for a moment
in the midst of the drawing-room.

"This is a very pretty house; it must belong to some rich person. Do you
know to whom it belongs?" suddenly remarked Madame Krasinska, looking
slowly round her at the furniture, the pictures, statuettes, nicknacks,
the screens and plants. "Do you know to whom it belongs?" she repeated.

"It belongs to the most charming lady in Florence," stammered out the
visitor politely, and fled.

"My darling Netta," exclaimed the Chanoiness from where she was seated
crocheting benevolently futile garments by the fire; "you should not
joke in that way. That poor young man was placed in a painful, in a very
painful position by your nonsense."

Madame Krasinska leaned her arms on a screen, and stared her respectable
relation long in the face.

"You seem a kind woman," she said at length. "You are old, but then you
aren't poor, and they don't call you a mad woman. That makes all the
difference."

Then she set to singing--drumming out the tune on the screen--the
soldier song of '59, _Addio, mia bella, addio_.

"Netta!" cried the Chanoiness, dropping one ball of worsted after
another. "Netta!"

But Madame Krasinska passed her hand over her brow and heaved a great
sigh. Then she took a cigarette off a cloisonne tray, dipped a spill in
the fire and remarked,

"Would you like to have the brougham to go to see your friend at
the Sacre Coeur, Aunt Therese? I have promised to wait in for Molly
Wolkonsky and Bice Forteguerra. We are going to dine at _Doney's_ with
young Pomfret."

VI.

Madame Krasinska had repeated her evening drives in the rain. Indeed
she began also to walk about regardless of weather. Her maid asked her
whether she had been ordered exercise by the doctor, and she answered
yes. But why she should not walk in the Cascine or along the Lung' Arno,
and why she should always choose the muddiest thoroughfares, the maid
did not inquire. As it was, Madame Krasinska never showed any repugnance
or seemly contrition for the state of draggle in which she used to
return home; sometimes when the woman was unbuttoning her boots, she
would remain in contemplation of their muddiness, murmuring things which
Jefferies could not understand. The servants, indeed, declared that the
Countess must have gone out of her mind. The footman related that she
used to stop the brougham, get out and look into the lit shops, and that
he had to stand behind, in order to prevent lady-killing youths of a
caddish description from whispering expressions of admiration in her
ear. And once, he affirmed with horror, she had stopped in front of a
certain cheap eating-house, and looked in at the bundles of asparagus,
at the uncooked chops displayed in the window. And then, added the
footman, she had turned round to him slowly and said,

"They have good food in there."

And meanwhile, Madame Krasinska went to dinners and parties, and gave
them, and organised picnics, as much as was decently possible in Lent,
and indeed a great deal more.

She no longer complained of the blues; she assured everyone that she
had completely got rid of them, that she had never been in such spirits
in all her life. She said it so often, and in so excited a way, that
judicious people declared that now that lover must really have jilted
her, or gambling on the Stock Exchange have brought her to the verge of
ruin.

Nay, Madame Krasinska's spirits became so obstreperous as to change her
in sundry ways. Although living in the fastest set, Madame Krasinska had
never been a fast woman. There was something childlike in her nature
which made her modest and decorous. She had never learned to talk slang,
or to take up vulgar attitudes, or to tell impossible stories; and she
had never lost a silly habit of blushing at expressions and anecdotes
which she did not reprove other women for using and relating. Her
amusements had never been flavoured with that spice of impropriety, of
curiosity of evil, which was common in her set. She liked putting on
pretty frocks, arranging pretty furniture, driving in well got up
carriages, eating good dinners, laughing a great deal, and dancing a
great deal, and that was all.

But now Madame Krasinska suddenly altered. She became, all of a sudden,
anxious for those exotic sensations which honest women may get by
studying the ways, and frequenting the haunts, of women by no means
honest. She made up parties to go to the low theatres and music-halls;
she proposed dressing up and going, in company with sundry adventurous
spirits, for evening strolls in the more dubious portions of the town.
Moreover, she, who had never touched a card, began to gamble for large
sums, and to surprise people by producing a folded green roulette cloth
and miniature roulette rakes out of her pocket. And she became so
outrageously conspicuous in her flirtations (she who had never flirted
before), and so outrageously loud in her manners and remarks, that her
good friends began to venture a little remonstrance....

But remonstrance was all in vain; and she would toss her head and laugh
cynically, and answer in a brazen, jarring voice.

For Madame Krasinska felt that she must live, live noisily, live
scandalously, live her own life of wealth and dissipation, because ...

She used to wake up at night with the horror of that suspicion. And in
the middle of the day, pull at her clothes, tear down her hair, and rush
to the mirror and stare at herself, and look for every feature, and
clutch for every end of silk, or bit of lace, or wisp of hair, which
proved that she was really herself. For gradually, slowly, she had come
to understand that she was herself no longer.

Herself--well, yes, of course she was herself. Was it not herself who
rushed about in such a riot of amusement; herself whose flushed cheeks
and over-bright eyes, and cynically flaunted neck and bosom she saw
in the glass, whose mocking loud voice and shrill laugh she listened
to? Besides, did not her servants, her visitors, know her as Netta
Krasinska; and did she not know how to wear her clothes, dance, make
jokes, and encourage men, afterwards to discourage them? This, she often
said to herself, as she lay awake the long nights, as she sat out the
longer nights gambling and chaffing, distinctly proved that she really
was herself. And she repeated it all mentally when she returned, muddy,
worn out, and as awakened from a ghastly dream, after one of her long
rambles through the streets, her daily walks towards the station.

But still.... What of those strange forebodings of evil, those muddled
fears of some dreadful calamity ... something which had happened, or was
going to happen ... poverty, starvation, death--whose death, her own? or
someone else's? That knowledge that it was all, all over; that blinding,
felling blow which used every now and then to crush her.... Yes, she had
felt that first at the railway station. At the station? but what had
happened at the station? Or was it going to happen still? Since to the
station her feet seemed unconsciously to carry her every day. What was
it all? Ah! she knew. There was a woman, an old woman, walking to the
station to meet.... Yes, to meet a regiment on its way back. They came
back, those soldiers, among a mob yelling triumph. She remembered the
illuminations, the red, green, and white lanterns, and those garlands
all over the waiting-rooms. And quantities of flags. The bands played.
So gaily! They played Garibaldi's hymn, and _Addio, Mia Bella_. Those
pieces always made her cry now. The station was crammed, and all the
boys, in tattered, soiled uniforms, rushed into the arms of parents,
wives, friends. Then there was like a blinding light, a crash.... An
officer led the old woman gently out of the place, mopping his eyes. And
she, of all the crowd, was the only one to go home alone. Had it really
all happened? and to whom? Had it really happened to her, had her
boys.... But Madame Krasinska had never had any boys.

It was dreadful how much it rained in Florence; and stuff boots do wear
out so quick in mud. There was such a lot of mud on the way to the
station; but of course it was necessary to go to the station in order to
meet the train from Lombardy--the boys must be met.

There was a place on the other side of the river where you went in and
handed your watch and your brooch over the counter, and they gave you
some money and a paper. Once the paper got lost. Then there was a
mattress, too. But there was a kind man--a man who sold hardware--who
went and fetched it back. It was dreadfully cold in winter, but the
worst was the rain. And having no watch one was afraid of being late
for that train, and had to dawdle so long in the muddy streets. Of
course one could look in at the pretty shops. But the little boys were
so rude. Oh, no, no, not that--anything rather than be shut up in an
hospital. The poor old woman did no one any harm--why shut her up?

"_Faites votre jeu, messieurs_," cried Madame Krasinska, raking up the
counters with the little rake she had had made of tortoise-shell, with a
gold dragon's head for a handle--"_Rien ne va plus--vingt-trois--Rouge,
impair et manque_."

VII.

How did she come to know about this woman? She had never been inside
that house over the tobacconist's, up three pairs of stairs to the left;
and yet she knew exactly the pattern of the wall-paper. It was green,
with a pinkish trellis-work, in the grand sitting-room, the one which
was opened only on Sunday evenings, when the friends used to drop in and
discuss the news, and have a game of _tresette_. You passed through the
dining-room to get through it. The dining-room had no window, and was
lit from a skylight; there was always a little smell of dinner in it,
but that was appetising. The boys' rooms were to the back. There was
a plaster Joan of Arc in the hall, close to the clothes-peg. She was
painted to look like silver, and one of the boys had broken her arm,
so that it looked like a gas-pipe. It was Momino who had done it,
jumping on to the table when they were playing. Momino was always the
scapegrace; he wore out so many pairs of trousers at the knees, but he
was so warm-hearted! and after all, he had got all the prizes at school,
and they all said he would be a first-rate engineer. Those dear boys!
They never cost their mother a farthing, once they were sixteen; and
Momino bought her a big, beautiful muff out of his own earnings as a
pupil-teacher. Here it is! Such a comfort in the cold weather, you can't
think, especially when gloves are too dear. Yes, it is rabbit-skin, but
it is made to look like ermine, quite a handsome article. Assunta, the
maid of all work, never would clean out that kitchen of hers--servants
are such sluts! and she tore the moreen sofa-cover, too, against a nail
in the wall. She ought to have seen that nail! But one mustn't be too
hard on a poor creature, who is an orphan into the bargain. Oh, God! oh,
God! and they lie in the big trench at San Martino, without even a cross
over them, or a bit of wood with their name. But the white coats of the
Austrians were soaked red, I warrant you! And the new dye they call
magenta is made of pipe-clay--the pipe-clay the dogs clean their white
coats with--and the blood of Austrians. It's a grand dye, I tell you!

Lord, Lord, how wet the poor old woman's feet are! And no fire to warm
them by. The best is to go to bed when one can't dry one's clothes; and
it saves lamp-oil. That was very good oil the parish priest made her a
present of ... Ai, ai, how one's bones ache on the mere boards, even
with a blanket over them! That good, good mattress at the pawn-shop!
It's nonsense about the Italians having been beaten. The Austrians were
beaten into bits, made cats'-meat of; and the volunteers are returning
to-morrow. Temistocle and Momino--Momino is Girolamo, you know--will be
back to-morrow; their rooms have been cleaned, and they shall have a
flask of real Montepulciano.... The big bottles in the chemist's window
are very beautiful, particularly the green one. The shop where they sell
gloves and scarfs is also very pretty; but the English chemist's is the
prettiest, because of those bottles. But they say the contents of them
is all rubbish, and no real medicine.... Don't speak of San Bonifazio!
I have seen it. It is where they keep the mad folk and the wretched,
dirty, wicked, wicked old women.... There was a handsome book bound
in red, with gold edges, on the best sitting-room table; the Aeneid,
translated by Caro. It was one of Temistocle's prizes. And that
Berlin-wool cushion ... yes, the little dog with the cherries looked
quite real....

"I have been thinking I should like to go to Sicily, to see Etna, and
Palermo, and all those places," said Madame Krasinska, leaning on the
balcony by the side of Prince Mongibello, smoking her fifth or sixth
cigarette.

She could see the hateful hooked nose, like a nasty hawk's beak, over
the big black beard, and the creature's leering, languishing black eyes,
as he looked up into the twilight. She knew quite well what sort of man
Mongibello was. No woman could approach him, or allow him to approach
her; and there she was on that balcony alone with him in the dark, far
from the rest of the party, who were dancing and talking within. And to
talk of Sicily to him, who was a Sicilian too! But that was what she
wanted--a scandal, a horror, anything that might deaden those thoughts
which would go on inside her.... The thought of that strange, lofty
whitewashed place, which she had never seen, but which she knew so well,
with an altar in the middle, and rows and rows of beds, each with its
set-out of bottles and baskets, and horrid slobbering and gibbering old
women. Oh ... she could hear them!

"I should like to go to Sicily," she said in a tone that was now common
to her, adding slowly and with emphasis, "but I should like to have
someone to show me all the sights...."

"Countess," and the black beard of the creature bent over her--close to
her neck--"how strange--I also feel a great longing to see Sicily once
more, but not alone--those lovely, lonely valleys...."

Ah!--there was one of the creatures who had sat up in her bed and was
singing, singing "Casta Diva!" "No, not alone"--she went on hurriedly,
a sort of fury of satisfaction, of the satisfaction of destroying
something, destroying her own fame, her own life, filling her as she
felt the man's hand on her arm--"not alone, Prince--with someone to
explain things--someone who knows all about it--and in this lovely
spring weather. You see, I am a bad traveller--and I am afraid ... of
being alone...." The last words came out of her throat loud, hoarse, and
yet cracked and shrill--and just as the Prince's arm was going to clasp
her, she rushed wildly into the room, exclaiming--

"Ah, I am she--I am she--I am mad!"

For in that sudden voice, so different from her own, Madame Krasinska
had recognised the voice that should have issued from the cardboard mask
she had once worn, the voice of Sora Lena.

VIII.

Yes, Cecchino certainly recognised her now. Strolling about in that
damp May twilight among the old, tortuous streets, he had mechanically
watched the big black horses draw up at the posts which closed that
labyrinth of black, narrow alleys; the servant in his white waterproof
opened the door, and the tall, slender woman got out and walked quickly
along. And mechanically, in his wool-gathering way, he had followed the
lady, enjoying the charming note of delicate pink and grey which her
little frock made against those black houses, and under that wet, grey
sky, streaked pink with the sunset. She walked quickly along, quite
alone, having left the footman with the carriage at the entrance of that
condemned old heart of Florence; and she took no notice of the stares
and words of the boys playing in the gutters, the pedlars housing their
barrows under the black archways, and the women leaning out of window.
Yes; there was no doubt. It had struck him suddenly as he watched her
pass under a double arch and into a kind of large court, not unlike that
of a castle, between the frowning tall houses of the old Jews' quarter;
houses escutcheoned and stanchioned, once the abode of Ghibelline
nobles, now given over to rag-pickers, scavengers and unspeakable
trades.

As soon as he recognised her he stopped, and was about to turn: what
business has a man following a lady, prying into her doings when she
goes out at twilight, with carriage and footman left several streets
back, quite alone through unlikely streets? And Cecchino, who by this
time was on the point of returning to the Maremma, and had come to the
conclusion that civilisation was a boring and loathsome thing, reflected
upon the errands which French novels described ladies as performing,
when they left their carriage and footman round the corner.... But the
thought was disgraceful to Cecchino, and unjust to this lady--no, no!
And at this moment he stopped, for the lady had stopped a few paces
before him, and was staring fixedly into the grey evening sky. There
was something strange in that stare; it was not that of a woman who is
hiding disgraceful proceedings. And in staring round she must have
seen him; yet she stood still, like one wrapped in wild thoughts. Then
suddenly she passed under the next archway, and disappeared in the dark
passage of a house. Somehow Cecco Bandini could not make up his mind, as
he ought to have done long ago, to turn back. He slowly passed through
the oozy, ill-smelling archway, and stood before that house. It was
very tall, narrow, and black as ink, with a jagged roof against the
wet, pinkish sky. From the iron hook, made to hold brocades and Persian
carpets on gala days of old, fluttered some rags, obscene and ill-omened
in the wind. Many of the window panes were broken. It was evidently one
of the houses which the municipality had condemned to destruction for
sanitary reasons, and whence the inmates were gradually being evicted.

"That's a house they're going to pull down, isn't it?" he inquired in a
casual tone of the man at the corner, who kept a sort of cookshop, where
chestnut pudding and boiled beans steamed on a brazier in a den. Then
his eye caught a half-effaced name close to the lamp-post, "Little
Street of the Grave-digger." "Ah," he added quickly, "this is the street
where old Sora Lena committed suicide--and--is--is that the house?"

Then, trying to extricate some reasonable idea out of the extraordinary
tangle of absurdities which had all of a sudden filled his mind, he
fumbled in his pocket for a silver coin, and said hurriedly to the man
with the cooking brazier,

"See here, that house, I'm sure, isn't well inhabited. That lady has
gone there for a charity--but--but one doesn't know that she mayn't
be annoyed in there. Here's fifty centimes for your trouble. If that
lady doesn't come out again in three-quarters of an hour--there! it's
striking seven--just you go round to the stone posts--you'll find her
carriage there--black horses and grey liveries--and tell the footman to
run upstairs to his mistress--understand?" And Cecchino Bandini fled,
overwhelmed at the thought of the indiscretion he was committing, but
seeing, as he turned round, those rags waving an ominous salute from the
black, gaunt house with its irregular roof against the wet, twilight
sky.

IX.

Madame Krasinska hurried though the long black corridor, with its
slippery bricks and typhoid smell, and went slowly but resolutely up
the black staircase. Its steps, constructed perhaps in the days of
Dante's grandfather, when a horn buckle and leathern belt formed the
only ornaments of Florentine dames, were extraordinarily high, and worn
off at the edges by innumerable generations of successive nobles and
paupers. And as it twisted sharply on itself, the staircase was lighted
at rare intervals by barred windows, overlooking alternately the black
square outside, with its jags of overhanging roof, and a black yard,
where a broken well was surrounded by a heap of half-sorted chickens'
feathers and unpicked rags. On the first landing was an open door,
partly screened by a line of drying tattered clothes; and whence
issued shrill sounds of altercation and snatches of tipsy song. Madame
Krasinska passed on heedless of it all, the front of her delicate frock
brushing the unseen filth of those black steps, in whose crypt-like
cold and gloom there was an ever-growing breath of charnel. Higher and
higher, flight after flight, steps and steps. Nor did she look to the
right or to the left, nor ever stop to take breath, but climbed upward,
slowly, steadily. At length she reached the topmost landing, on to which
fell a flickering beam of the setting sun. It issued from a room, whose
door was standing wide open. Madame Krasinska entered. The room was
completely empty, and comparatively light. There was no furniture in it,
except a chair, pushed into a dark corner, and an empty bird-cage at the
window. The panes were broken, and here and there had been mended with
paper. Paper also hung, in blackened rags, upon the walls.

Madame Krasinska walked to the window and looked out over the
neighbouring roofs, to where the bell in an old black belfry swung
tolling the Ave Maria. There was a porticoed gallery on the top of a
house some way off; it had a few plants growing in pipkins, and a drying
line. She knew it all so well.

On the window-sill was a cracked basin, in which stood a dead basil
plant, dry, grey. She looked at it some time, moving the hardened earth
with her fingers. Then she turned to the empty bird-cage. Poor solitary
starling! how he had whistled to the poor old woman! Then she began to
cry.

But after a few moments she roused herself. Mechanically, she went to
the door and closed it carefully. Then she went straight to the dark
corner, where she knew that the staved-in straw chair stood. She dragged
it into the middle of the room, where the hook was in the big rafter.
She stood on the chair, and measured the height of the ceiling. It was
so low that she could graze it with the palm of her hand. She took off
her gloves, and then her bonnet--it was in the way of the hook. Then
she unclasped her girdle, one of those narrow Russian ribbons of silver
woven stuff, studded with niello. She buckled one end firmly to the big
hook. Then she unwound the strip of muslin from under her collar. She
was standing on the broken chair, just under the rafter. "Pater noster
qui es in caelis," she mumbled, as she still childishly did when putting
her head on the pillow every night.

The door creaked and opened slowly. The big, hulking woman, with the
vague, red face and blear stare, and the rabbit-skin muff, bobbing on
her huge crinolined skirts, shambled slowly into the room. It was the
Sora Lena.

X.

When the man from the cook-shop under the archway and the footman
entered the room, it was pitch dark. Madame Krasinska was lying in the
middle of the floor, by the side of an overturned chair, and under a
hook in the rafter whence hung her Russian girdle. When she awoke from
her swoon, she looked slowly round the room; then rose, fastened her
collar and murmured, crossing herself, "O God, thy mercy is infinite."
The men said that she smiled.

Such is the legend of Madame Krasinska, known as Mother Antoinette Marie
among the Little Sisters of the Poor.

  _Printed by_ BALLANTYNE, HANSON & CO
  _Edinburgh and London_

       *       *       *       *       *
