"---- WILL NOT TAKE PLACE."

"'Lingard,' 'Trevannion,'" murmured Captain Murray, as he ran his eye
down the column of the morning paper specially devoted to so-called
fashionable intelligence, "Lingard, Arthur Lingard; yes, I've met him;
a very good fellow. And Trevannion; don't you know a Miss Trevannion,
Bessie?"

Mrs. Murray glanced up from her teacups.

"What do you say, Walter? Trevannion; yes, I have met a girl of the name
at my aunt's. A pretty girl, and I think I heard she was going to be
married. Is that what you are talking about?"

"No," her husband replied. "It's the other way--broken off, I wonder
why."

"What an old gossip you are," said Mrs. Murray. "No good reason at all,
I daresay. People are so capricious now-a-days."

"Still, they don't often announce a marriage till it's pretty certain
to come off. This sort of thing," tapping the paper as he spoke, "isn't
exactly pleasant."

"Very much the reverse," agreed Mrs. Murray, and then they thought no
more about it.

"I wonder why," said a good many people that morning, when they caught
sight of the announcement. For the two principals it concerned--Arthur
Lingard, especially--had a large circle of friends and acquaintances, and
their engagement had been the subject of much and hearty congratulation.
It seemed so natural and fitting that these two should marry. Both
young, amiable, good-looking, and sufficiently well off. Even the most
cynical could discern no cloud in the bright sky of their future, no
crook in the lot before them.

And now--

No marvel that Captain Murray's soliloquy was repeated by many.

But who would have guessed that in one heart it was ever ringing with
maddening anguish?

"I wonder why, oh, I wonder why he has done it. Oh, if he would but tell
me, it could not surely seem quite so unendurable."

And Daisy Trevannion pressed her aching head, and her poor swollen eyes
on to her mother's loving bosom in a sort of wild despair.

"Mamma, mamma," she cried, "help me. I cannot be angry with him. I wish
I could. He was so gentle, so sweet--and he is so heartbroken, I can see
by his letter. Oh, mamma, what can it be?"

But to this, even the devoted mother, who would gladly have given her
own life to save her child this misery, could find no answer.

This was what had happened.

They had been engaged about three months, the wedding day was
approximately fixed, when one morning the blow fell.

A letter to Daisy's father, enclosing one to herself--a letter which
made Mr. Trevannion draw his brows together in instinctive indignation,
and then as the first impulse cooled a little, caused him to turn to his
daughter with a movement of irritation, underneath which, hope had,
nevertheless, found time to reassert itself.

"Daisy," he exclaimed sharply, "what is the meaning of all this
nonsense? Have you been quarrelling with Lingard? You're a bit of a
spoilt child I know, my dear, but I don't like playing with edged
tools--a man like Arthur won't stand being trifled with. Do you hear,
Daisy--eh, what?"

For the girl had scarcely caught the sense of his words, so absorbed was
she in those of the short, all too short, but terrible letter she had
just read--the letter addressed to herself, which began "Daisy, my
Daisy, for the last time," and ended abruptly with the simple signature,
"Arthur Lingard".

She gazed up at her father--her white face all drawn, and as it were,
withered with that minute's agony--her eyes dulled and yet wild. Never
was there such a metamorphosis from the happy, laughing girl who had
hurried in with some pretty excuse for her unpunctuality.

"Daisy, my child! Daisy," her father repeated, repenting already of his
hasty remarks, "don't take it so seriously." "Margaret," to his wife,
"speak to her."

And Mrs. Trevannion, as pale almost as her daughter, drew the sheet of
note-paper from the girl's unresisting hands, while her husband held out
to her his own letter.

"Some complete mistake," she said, "some misplaced quixotry. Daisy, my
own darling, do not take it so seriously. Your father will see him--you
will, will you not, Hugh?" detecting the proud hesitation in her
husband's face. "It is not as if we did not know him well, and all about
him. Your father will find out, Daisy, and make it all right."

Mr. Trevannion did not contradict her, but murmured some consolatory
words, and then the mother led Daisy away, and to a certain extent the
girl allowed herself to be reassured.

"I will consult Keir if necessary," said the father when out of hearing
of his daughter. "He is the natural person, both as our own connection
and because he introduced Lingard, and thinks so highly of him. But
first I will see Arthur alone. The fewer mixed up in such a case the
better."

Mrs. Trevannion agreed. She was constitutionally sanguine, but a painful
idea struck her as her husband spoke.

"Hugh," she said hesitatingly, "you don't think--it surely is not
possible that his--that Arthur's brain is affected?"

"His brain--tut, nonsense! What a woman's idea!" replied Mr. Trevannion
irritably. "Why, he is receiving compliments on every side, from the
very highest quarters, too, on that article of his on the Capricorn
Islands. Brain affected, indeed!"

And to a whisper of, "I was thinking of over-work," which followed him
apologetically, he vouchsafed no reply.

Some intensely trying days passed. Mr. Trevannion's interview with his
recalcitrant son-in-law-to-be, proved a complete failure. Nothing,
absolutely nothing was to be "got out of the fellow," he told his wife
in mingled anger and wretchedness, for the poor man was a devoted
father. Arthur was gentleness itself, respectful, deferential even,
to the man whose peculiarly disagreeable position he felt for
inexpressibly. But he was as firm, as hard in his decision that all
should be, must be, over between Miss Trevannion and himself, as if his
own heart had suddenly turned to iron, as if he possessed no feelings at
all. He grew white to the lips, with a terrible death-like whiteness,
when he named her; he said with a quiet, deliberate emphasis, more
impressive by far than any passionate declaration, that never, never
while he lived, would he forgive himself for the trouble he had brought
into her young life, but that he was powerless to do otherwise, he was
absolutely without a choice. As to the reason for the breaking off of
the engagement to be given to the world, he left it entirely in the
Trevannions' own hands; he would contradict nothing they thought it best
to say; but, if possible, he grew still whiter when his visitor from
under his shaggy eyebrows glanced at him with a look of contempt while
he replied cuttingly that he had no love of falsehood. For his part he
would tell the truth, and in the end he believed it would be best for
Daisy that all the world should know the way in which she had been
treated.

"Best for her and worst for you," he repeated.

And Arthur only said:--

"I hope so. It must be as you think well."

Then Trevannion softened again a little.

"I shall say nothing to any one at present," he went on. "I must see
Keir; possibly he may understand you better than I can."

But, "No, it will be no use," the young man repeated coldly, though his
very heart was wrung for the father, crushing down his own pride while
he thought he saw still the ghost of a hope. "It will be no use. No one
can do anything."

"And you adhere to your determination not to see my--not to see Daisy
again?"

Lingard bowed his head.

And Mr. Trevannion left him.

Philip Keir was no blood relation of the Trevannions, but a cousin by
marriage and a very intimate friend. He was some years older than Mr.
Lingard, and it was through him that the acquaintance resulting in
Daisy's engagement had begun. He was a reserved man, with a frank and
cordial manner. Daisy thought she knew him well, but as to this she was
in some directions entirely mistaken.

He was away from home when Mr. Trevannion called on him, driving
straight to his chambers from the fruitless interview with Lingard.
Philip did not return for a couple of days, and had left no address.
Hence ensued the painful interval of suspense alluded to.

But on the third evening a hansom dashed up to the Trevannions' door,
and Mr. Keir jumped out. It was late, but there was no hesitation as to
admitting him.

"I found your note," he said, as he grasped his host's hand, "and came
straight on. I have only just got back. What is the matter? Tell me at
once."

He was a self-controlled man, but his agitation was evident. "Daisy?" he
added hastily.

"Yes," replied the father. The two were alone in his study. "Poor
Daisy!" And then he told the story.

Keir listened, though not altogether in silence, for broken
exclamations, which he seemed unable to repress, broke out from him more
than once.

"Impossible----inconceivable!" he muttered, "Lingard, of all men, to
behave like a----" he stopped short, at a loss for a comparison.

"Then you can throw no light upon it--none whatever?" said Mr.
Trevannion. "We had hoped--foolishly, perhaps--I had somehow hoped that
you might have helped us. You know him well, you see, you have been so
much together, your acquaintance is of old date, and you must understand
any peculiarities of his character."

His tone still sounded as if he could not bring himself finally to
accept the position. Keir was inexpressibly sorry for him.

"I know of none," he said. "Frankly, I know of nothing about him that is
not estimable. And, as you say, we have been much and most intimately
associated. We have travelled together half over the world, we have been
dependent on each other for months at a time, and the more I have seen
of him the more I have admired and--yes--loved him. If I had to pick a
fault in him I would say it is a curious spice of obstinacy--I have seen
it very strongly now and then. Once," and his face grew grave, "once, we
nearly quarrelled because he would not give in on a certain point. It
was in Siberia, not long ago," and here Philip gave a sort of shiver,
"it was very horrible--no need to go into details. He, Arthur, got it
into his head that a particular course of action was called for, and
there was no moving him. However it ended all right. I had almost
forgotten it. But he was determined."

Mr. Trevannion listened, but vaguely. Keir's remarks scarcely seemed to
the point.

"Obstinate!" he repeated. "Yes, but that doesn't explain things. There
was no question of giving in. They had had no quarrel. Daisy was
perfectly happy. The only thing she can say on looking back over the
last week or two closely, is that Arthur had seemed depressed now and
then, and when she taxed him with it he evaded a reply. You don't think,
Philip, that there is anything of that kind--melancholia, you know--in
his family?"

"Bless you, no, my dear sir. He comes of the healthiest stock possible.
People one knows all about for generations. No, no, it's nothing of that
kind," Keir replied. "And--what man ever had such happy prospects?"

"Then what in heaven's name is it?" said Mr. Trevannion, bringing his
hand down violently on the table beside which they were sitting. "Can
you get it out of him, if you can do nothing else for us, Philip? It is
our right to know; it is--it is due to my child, it is----" he stopped,
his face working with emotion. "He won't see her, you know," he added
disconnectedly.

"I will try," said Philip. "It is indeed the least I can do. If--if I
could get him to see her--Daisy; surely that would be the best chance."

Mr. Trevannion looked at him sharply, scrutinisingly.

"You--you are satisfied then--entirely satisfied that there is nothing
we need dread her being mixed up in, so to say? Nothing wrong--nothing
to shock a girl like her? You see," half apologetically, "his refusing
to see her makes one afraid----"

"I am as sure of him as of myself--surer," said Philip earnestly. "There
is nothing in his past to explain it--nothing."

"An early secret marriage; a wife he thought dead turning up again,"
suggested the father. "It sounds absurd, sensational--but after
all--there must be some reason."

"Not that," said Keir, getting up as he spoke. "Well then, I will see
him first thing in the morning, and communicate with you as soon as
possible after I have done so. You will tell Mrs. Trevannion and--and
Daisy that I will do my best?"

"My wife is still in the drawing-room. Will you not see her to-night?"

Philip shook his head.

"It is late," he said, "and I am dusty and unpresentable. Besides, there
is really nothing to say. To-morrow it shall be as you all think best. I
will see Mrs. Trevannion--and Daisy," here he flushed a little, but his
host did not observe it, "if you like and if she wishes it. Heaven send
I may have better news than I expect."

And with a warm pressure of his old friend's hand, Mr. Keir left him.

The two younger men met the next morning. There was no difficulty about
it, for Lingard, knowing by instinct that the interview must take place,
had determined to face it. So of the two he was the more prepared, the
more forearmed.

The conversation was long--an hour, two hours passed before poor Philip
could make up his mind to accept the ultimatum contained in the few hard
words with which Arthur Lingard first greeted him.

"I know what you have come about. I knew you must come. You could not
help yourself. But, Philip, it will save you pain--I don't mind for
myself; nothing can matter now--if you will at once take my word for it
that nothing you can say will do the least shadow of good. No, don't
shake hands with me. I would rather you didn't."

And he put his right arm behind his back and stood there, leaning
against the mantelpiece, facing his friend.

Philip looked up at him grimly.

"No," he said, "I've given my word to--to these poor dear people, and
I'll stick to it. You've got to make up your mind to a cross-examination,
Lingard."

But through or below the grimness was a terrible pity. Philip's heart
was very tender for the man whose inexplicable conduct was yet filling
him with indignation past words. Arthur was so changed--the last week or
two had done the work of years--all the youthfulness, the almost boyish
brightness, which had been one of his charms, was gone, dead. He was
pale with a strange indescribable pallor, that told of days, and worse
still, of nights of agony; the lines of his face were hardened; the lips
spoke of unalterable determination. Only once had Philip seen him look
thus, and then it was but in expression--the likeness and the contrast
struck him curiously. The other time it had been resolution temporarily
hardening a youthful face; now--what did it remind him of? A monk who
had gone through a life-time of spiritual struggle alone, unaided by
human sympathy? A martyr--no, there was no enthusiasm. It was all dull,
dead anguish of unalterable resolve.

There was silence for a moment. Keir was choking down an uncomfortable
something in his throat, and bracing himself to the inquisitorial
torture before him to perform.

"Well," said Arthur, at last.

And Philip looked up at him again.

How queer his eyes were--they used to be so deeply blue. Daisy had often
laughed at his changeable eyes, as she called them--blue in the daytime,
almost black at night, but always lustrous and liquid. Now, they were
glassy, almost filmy. What was it? A sudden thought struck Philip.

"Arthur!" he exclaimed, "Arthur, old fellow, are you going blind? Is
that the mystery? If it is that, good Lord, how little you know her, if
you think that----"

Arthur's pale lips grew visibly paler. He had been unprepared for attack
in this direction, and for the moment he quailed before it.

"No," he whispered hoarsely, "it is not that. Would to God it were!"

But almost instantly he had mastered himself, and from that moment
throughout the interview not even the mention of Daisy's name had power
to stir him.

And Philip, annoyed with his own impulsiveness, stiffened again.

"You are determined not to reveal your secret," he began, "but I want to
come to an understanding with you on one point. If I guess it, if I put
my finger on it, will you give me the satisfaction of owning that I have
done so."

Lingard hesitated.

"Yes," he said, "I will do so on one condition--your word of honour,
your oath, never to tell it to any human being."

"Not to--her--Daisy?"

"Least of all."

Philip groaned. This did not look very promising for the meeting with
Daisy, which at the bottom of his heart he believed in as his last--his
trump card.

Still, he had gained something.

"Then, my first question seems, in the face of that, almost a mockery. I
was going to ask you," and he half gasped--"it is nothing--nothing about
her that is at the root of all this misery? No fancy," again the gasp,
"that--that she doesn't care for you, or love you enough? No nonsense
about your not being suited to each other, or that you couldn't make a
girl of her sensitive, high-strung nature happy?"

"No," said Arthur, and the word seemed to ring through the room. "No, I
know she loves me as I love her. Oh, no, not quite like that, I trust,"
and his voice was firm through all the tragedy of the last sentence.
"And I believe I could have made her very happy. Leave her name out of
it now, Phil, once for all. It has nothing to do personally with the
woman who is, and always will be, to me my perfect ideal of sweetness
and excellence and truth and beauty."

"Then it has to do with yourself," murmured Keir. "Come, the radius is
narrowing. I flew out at poor Trevannion when he suggested it, but all
the same, it's nothing in your past you're ashamed of that's come to
light, is it? The best fellows in the world make fools of themselves
sometimes, you know. Don't mind my asking."

"I don't mind," said Arthur wearily, "but it's no use. No, it's nothing
like that. I have done nothing I am ashamed of. I am not secretly
married, nor have I committed forgery," with a very ghastly attempt at a
smile.

"Then," said Philip, "is it something about your family. Have you found
out that there's a strain of insanity in the Lingards perhaps? People
exaggerate that kind of thing now-a-days. There's a touch of it in us
all, I take it."

"No," said Arthur, again "my family's all right. I've no very near
relations except my sister, but you know her, and you know all about us.
We're not adventurers in any sense of the word."

"Far from it," agreed Philip warmly. Then for a moment or two he
relapsed into silence. "Does your sister--does Lady West know
about--about this mysterious affair?" he asked abruptly, after some
pondering.

"Nothing whatever. I, of course, was bound by every consideration not to
tell her--to tell no one anything till it was understood by--the
Trevannions. And I had no reason for consulting her or--any friend,"
Arthur replied.

He spoke jerkily and with effort, as if he were putting force on himself
to endure what yet he was convinced was absolutely useless torture.

But his words gave Keir a new opening, which he was quick to seize.

"That's just it," he exclaimed eagerly. "That's just where it strikes
me you've gone wrong. You should have consulted some one--not myself,
not your sister even; I don't say whom, but some one sensible and
trustworthy. I believe your mind has got warped. You've been thinking
over this trouble, whatever it is, till you can't see it rightly. You've
exaggerated it out of all proportion, and you shouldn't trust your own
morbid judgment."

Lingard did not answer. He stood motionless, his eyes fixed upon the
ground. For an instant a wild hope dashed through Philip that at last
he had made some impression. But as Arthur slowly raised his dim, worn
eyes, and looked him in the face, it faded again, even before the young
man spoke.

"To satisfy you, I will tell you this much. I have consulted one
person--a man whom you would allow was trustworthy and wise and good.
From him I have hidden nothing whatever, and he agrees with me that I
have no choice--that duty points unmistakably to the course I am
pursuing."

Again a flash of suggestion struck his hearer.

"One person--a man," he repeated. "Arthur, is it some priest? Have they
been converting or perverting you, my boy? Are you going over to Rome,
fancying yourself called to be a Trappist, or a--those fellows at the
Grande Chartreuse, you remember?"

For the second time during the interview, Arthur smiled, and his smile
was a trifle less ghastly this time.

"No, again," he said. "You're quite on a wrong tack. I have not the
slightest inclination that way. I--I wish I had. No, my adviser is no
priest. But he's one of the best of men, all the same, and one of the
wisest."

"You won't tell me who he is?"

"I cannot."

"And"--Philip was reluctant to try his last hope, and felt conscious
that he would do it clumsily--"Arthur," he burst out, "you will see
her--Daisy--once more? She has a right to it. You are putting enough
upon her without refusing this one request of hers."

He stood up as he spoke. He himself had grown strangely pale, and seeing
this, as he glanced at him, Lingard's own face became ashen.

He shook his head.

"Good God!" he said, "I think this might have been spared me. No, I will
not see her again. The only thing I can do for her is to refuse this
last request. Tell her so, Philip--tell her what I say. And now leave
me. Don't shake hands with me. I don't wish it, and I daresay you don't.
If--if we never meet again, you and I--and who knows?--if this is our
goodbye, thank you, old fellow, thank you for all you have tried to do.
Perhaps I know the cost of it to you better than you imagine. Good-bye,
Phil!"

Keir turned towards the door. But he looked back ere he reached it.
Arthur was standing as he had been--motionless.

"You're not thinking of killing yourself, are you?" he said quietly.

Arthur looked at him. His eyes had a different expression now--or was
it that something was gleaming softly in them that had not been there
before?

"No, no--I am not going to be false to my colours. I--I don't care to
talk much about it, but--I am a Christian, Phil."

"At least I can put that horrid idea out of the poor child's head,
then," thought Keir to himself. Though to Arthur he did not reply, save
by a bend of his head.

       *       *       *       *       *

Time passed. And in his wings there was healing.

At twenty-four, Daisy Trevannion, though her face bore traces of
suffering of no common order, was yet a sweet and serene woman. To some
extent she had outlived the strange tragedy of her earlier girlhood.

It had never been explained. The one person who might naturally have
been looked to, to throw some light on the mystery, Lingard's sister,
Lady West, was, as her brother had stated, completely in the dark. At
first she had been disposed to blame Daisy, or her family; and though
afterwards convinced that in so doing she was entirely mistaken, she
never became in any sense confidential with them on the matter. And
after a few months they met no more. For her husband was sent abroad,
and detained there on an important diplomatic mission.

Now and then, in the earlier days of her broken engagement, Daisy would
ask Philip to "try to find out if Mary West knows where he is". And to
please her he did so. But all he learnt was--what indeed was all the
sister had to tell--that Arthur was off again on his old travels--to
the Capricorn Islands or to the moon, it was not clear which.

"He has promised that I shall hear from him once a year--as near my
birthday as he can manage. That is all I can tell you," she said, trying
to make light of it.

And whether this promise was kept or no, one thing was certain--Arthur
Lingard had entirely disappeared from London society.

At twenty-five, Daisy married Philip. He had always loved her, though he
had never allowed her to suspect it; and knowing herself and her history
as he did, he was satisfied with the true affection she could give
him--satisfied, that is to say, in the hope and belief that his own
devotion would kindle ever-increasing response on her side. And his
hopes were not disappointed. They were very happy.

Now for the sequel to the story--such sequel, that is to say, as there
is to give--a suggestion of explanation rather than any positive
_dénoument_ of the mystery.

They--Philip and Daisy--had been married for two or three years when one
evening it chanced to them to dine at the house of a rather well-known
literary man with whom they were but slightly acquainted. They had been
invited for a special reason; their hosts were pleasant and genial
people who liked to get those about them with interests in common.
And Keir, though his wings were now so happily clipt, still held his
position as a traveller who had seen and noted much in his former
wanderings.

"We think your husband may enjoy a talk with Sir Abel Maynard, who is
with us for a few days," Mrs. Thorncroft had said in her note.

And Sir Abel, not being of the surly order of lions who refuse to roar
when they know that their audience is eager to hear them, made himself
most agreeable. He appreciated Mr. Keir's intelligence and sympathy, and
was by no means indifferent to Mrs. Keir's beauty, though "evidently,"
he thought to himself, "she is not over fond of reminiscences of her
husband's travels. Perhaps she is afraid of his taking flight again."

During dinner the conversation turned, not unnaturally, on a subject
just at that moment much to the fore. For it was about the time of the
heroic Damien's death.

"No," said Sir Abel, in answer to some inquiry, "I never visited his
place. But I have seen lepers--to perfection. By-the-by," he went on
suddenly, "I came across a queer, a very queer, story a while ago. I
wonder, Keir, if you can throw any light upon it?"

But at that moment Mrs. Thorncroft gave the magic signal and the women
left the room.

By degrees the men came straggling upstairs after them, then a little
music followed, but it was not till much later in the evening than was
usual with him that Philip made his appearance in the drawing-room,
preceded by Sir Abel Maynard. Philip looked tired and rather "distrait,"
thought Daisy, whose eyes were keen with the quick discernment of
perfect affection, and she was not sorry when, before very long, he
whispered to her that it was getting late, might they not leave soon?
Nor was she sorry that during the interval before her husband made this
suggestion, Sir Abel, who had been devoting himself to her, had avoided
all mention of his travels, and had been amusing her with his criticism
of a popular novel instead. She could never succeed altogether in
banishing the painful association of Arthur Lingard from allusion to
her husband's old wanderings.

Poor Arthur! Where was he now?

"Philip, dear," she said, slipping her hand into his when they found
themselves alone, and with a longish drive before them, in their own
little brougham, "there is something the matter. You have heard
something? Tell me what it is."

Keir hesitated.

"Yes," he said, "I suppose it is best to tell you. It is the strange
story Sir Abel alluded to before you left the room."

"About--about Arthur? Is it about Arthur?" whispered she, shivering a
little.

Philip put his arm round her.

"I can't say. We shall perhaps never know certainly," he replied. "But
it looks very like it. Listen, dear. Some little time ago--two or
three years ago--Maynard spent some days at one of those awful leper
settlements--never mind where. I would just as soon you did not know.
There, to his amazement, among the most devoted of the attendants upon
the poor creatures he found an Englishman, young still, at least by his
own account, though to judge by his appearance it would have been
impossible to say. For he was himself far gone, very far gone in some
ways, in the disease. But he was, or had been, a man of strong
constitution and enormous determination. Ill as he was, he yet managed
to tend others with indescribable devotion. They looked upon him as a
saint. Maynard did not like to inquire what had brought him to such a
pass--he, the poor fellow, was a perfect gentleman. But the day Sir Abel
was leaving, the Englishman took him to some extent into his confidence,
and asked him to do him a service. This was his story. Some years
before, in quite a different part of the world, the young man had nursed
a leper--a dying leper--for some hours. He believed for long that he had
escaped all danger, in fact he never thought of it; but it was not so.
There must have been an unhealed wound of some kind--a slight scratch
would do it--on his hand. No need to go into the details of his first
misgivings, of the horror of the awful certainty at last. It came upon
him in the midst of the greatest happiness; he was going to be married
to a girl he adored."

"Oh, Philip, Philip, why did he not tell?" Daisy wailed.

"He consulted the best and greatest physician, who--as a friend, he
said--approved of the course he had mapped out for himself. He decided
to tell no one, to break off his engagement, and die out of her--the
girl's--life; not once, after he was sure, did he see her again. He
would not even risk touching her hand. And he believed that telling
would only have brought worse agony upon her in the end than the agony
he was forced to inflict. For he was a doomed man, though they gave him
a few years to live. And he did the only thing he could do with those
years. He set off to the settlement in question. Maynard was to call
there some months later on his way home, and the young man knew he would
be dead then, and so he was. But he showed Maynard a letter explaining
all, that he had got ready--all but the address--_that_, he would not
add till he was in the act of dying. There must be no risk of her
knowing till he was dead. And this letter Maynard was to fetch on his
return. He did so, but--there had been no time to add the address--death
had come suddenly. All sorts of precautions had been ordered by the poor
fellow as to disinfecting the letter and so on. But it did not seem to
Maynard that these had been taken. So he contented himself by spreading
out the paper on the sea-shore and learning it by heart, and then
leaving it. The sum total of it was what I have told you, but not one
name was named."

Daisy was sobbing quietly.

"Was it he?" she said.

"Yes, I feel sure of it," Philip replied. "For I can supply the missing
link. The one time I really quarrelled with Arthur was when we were in
Siberia. He _would_ spend a night in a dying leper's hut. I would have
done it myself, I believe and hope, had it been necessary. But by riding
on a few miles we could have got help for the poor creature--which
indeed I did--and more efficient help than ours. But Lingard was
determined, and no ill seemed to come of it. I had almost forgotten the
circumstance. I never associated it with the mystery that caused you
such anguish, my poor darling."

"It was he," whispered Daisy. "Philip, he was a hero after all."

"Not even you can feel that, as I do," Keir replied.

Then they were silent.

       *       *       *       *       *

A few weeks afterwards came a letter from Lady West, in her far-off
South American home. Daisy had not heard from her for years.

"By circuitous ways, I need not explain the details," she wrote, "I have
learnt that my darling brother is dead. I thought I had better tell you.
I am sure his most earnest wish was that you should live to be happy,
dear Daisy, as I trust you are. And I know you have long forgiven him
the sorrow he caused you--it was worse still for him."

"I wonder," said Daisy, "if she knows more?"

But the letter seemed to add certainty to their own conviction.
