THE INVISIBLE TENANTS OF
 RUSHMERE.

 “On the banks of the Wye, Monmouthshire.--To be Let, furnished, a
 commodious Family Mansion, surrounded with park-like grounds. Stabling
 and every convenience. Only two and a-half miles from station, church,
 and post-office. Excellent fishing to be procured in the
 neighbourhood. Rent nominal to a responsible tenant.”

Such, with a few trifling additions, was the advertisement that caught
my eye in the spring of 18--.

“My dear Jane,” I said, as I handed the paper over to my wife, “this,
I think, is the very thing we want.”

I was a London practitioner, with a numerous family and a large circle
of patients; but the two facts, though blessings in themselves, were
not without their disadvantages.

The hostages which I had given to fortune had made that strenuous
action which attention to my numerous patients supplied incumbent on
me; but the consequent anxiety and want of rest had drawn so largely
on my mental and physical resources, that there was no need for my
professional brethren to warn me of the necessity of change and
country air. I felt myself that I was breaking down, and had already
made arrangements with a friend to take my practice for a few months,
and set me at liberty to attend to my own health. And being
passionately fond of fishing, and all country pleasures and pursuits,
and looking forward with zest to a period of complete quiet, the
residence alluded to (if it fulfilled the promise of its
advertisement) appeared to be all that I could desire.

“Park-like grounds!” exclaimed my wife, with animation. “How the dear
children will enjoy themselves.”

“And two and a-half miles from church or station,” I responded
eagerly. “No neighbours, excellent fishing, and at a nominal rent. It
sounds too good to be true.”

“Oh, Arthur! you must write, and obtain all the particulars this very
day. If you put it off, some one will be sure to take the house before
we have time to do so.”

“I shall go and see the city agents at once,” I replied, resolutely.
“It is too rare an opportunity to be lost. Only, don’t raise your
hopes too high, my dear. Advertisements are apt to be deceptive.”

But when I had seen Messrs. Quibble & Lye on the subject, it really
seemed as though for once they had spoken the truth. Rushmere, the
house in question, had been built and furnished for his own use by an
old gentleman, who died shortly afterwards, and his heirs, not liking
the situation, had placed the property in the agents’ hands for
letting. The owners were wealthy, cared little for money, and had
authorised the agents to let the house on any reasonable terms, and it
was really a bargain to anyone that wanted it. They frankly admitted
that the loneliness of the position of Rushmere was the reason of its
cheapness; but when I heard the rent at which they offered to let me
take it, if approved of, for three months, I was quite ready to agree
with Messrs. Quibble & Lye in their idea of a bargain, and that, for
those who liked solitude, Rushmere offered extraordinary advantages.

Armed with the necessary authority, I found my way down into
Monmouthshire, to inspect the premises on the following day; and when
I saw Rushmere, I felt still more disposed to be surprised at the
opportunity afforded me, and to congratulate myself on the promptitude
with which I had embraced it. I found it to be a good-sized country
house, comfortably furnished, and, to all appearance, well built,
standing in enclosed grounds, and on a healthy elevation; but,
notwithstanding its isolated situation, I was too much a man of the
world to believe, under the circumstances, that its greatest
disadvantage lay in that fact. Accordingly, I peered eagerly about for
damp walls, covered cesspools, unsteady joists, or tottering
foundations, but I could find none.

“The chimneys smoke, I suppose?” I remarked, in a would-be careless
tone, to the old woman whom I found in charge of the house, and who
crept after me wherever I went.

“Chimbleys smoke, sir? Not as I knows of.”

“The roof leaks, perhaps?”

“Deary me, no. You won’t find a spot of damp, look where you may.”

“Then there’s been a fever, or some infectious disorder in the house?”

“A fever, sir? Why, the place has been empty these six months. The
last tenants left at Christmas.”

“Empty for six months!” I exclaimed. “How long is it, then, since the
gentleman who built it died?”

“Old Mr. Bennett, sir? He’s been dead a matter of fifteen years or
more.”

“Indeed! Then why don’t the owners of the place sell it, instead of
letting it stand vacant?” thought I to myself.

But I did not say so to the old woman, who was looking up in my face,
as though anxious to learn what my decision would be.

“No vermin, I hope?” I suggested, as a last resource. “You are not
troubled with rats or mice at night, are you?”

“Oh, I don’t sleep here at night, sir, thank heaven!” she answered in
a manner which appeared to me unnecessarily energetic. “I am only
employed by day to air the house, and show it to strangers. I go home
to my own people at night.”

“And where do your people live?”

“Better than half a mile from here, sir, and ours is the nearest
cottage to Rushmere.”

And then--apprehensive, perhaps, that her information might prove a
drawback to the letting of the property--she added, quickly,--

“Not but what it’s a nice place to live in, is Rushmere, and very
convenient, though a bit lonesome.”

I perfectly agreed with her, the “lonesomeness” of the situation
proving no detraction in my eyes.

On my return to London I gave my wife so glowing a description of the
house and its surroundings, that she urged me to conclude the bargain
at once; and, in the course of a few weeks, I and my family were
transplanted from the purlieus of Bayswater to the banks of the Wye.
It was the middle of May when we took possession, and the country wore
its most attractive garb. The children were wild with delight at being
let loose in the flower-bespangled fields, and, as I watched the
tributaries of the river, and perceived the excellent sport they
promised me, I felt scarcely less excited than the children. Only my
wife, I thought, became inoculated with some of the absurd fears of
the domestics we had brought with us from town, and seemed to consider
the locality more lonely and unprotected than she had expected to find
it.

“It’s a charming place, Arthur,” she acknowledged, “and marvellously
cheap; but it is certainly a long way from other houses. I find we
shall have to send for everything to the town. Not even the country
carts, with butter and poultry, seem to call at Rushmere.”

“My dear Jane, I told you distinctly that it was two and a-half miles
from church or station, and you read it for yourself in the paper. But
I thought we looked out for a retreat where we should run no risk of
being intruded on by strangers.”

“Oh yes, of course; only there are not even any farmhouses or cottages
near Rushmere, you see; and it would be so very easy for anyone to
break in at night, and rob us.”

“Pooh, nonsense! What will you be afraid of next? The locks and bolts
are perfectly secure, and both Dawson and I have firearms, and are
ready to use them. Your fears are childish, Janie.”

But all my arguments were unavailing, and each day my wife grew more
nervous, and less willing to be left alone. So much so, indeed, that I
made a practice of seeing that the house fastenings were properly
secured each night myself, and of keeping a loaded revolver close to
my hand, in case of need. But it damped my pleasure, to find that Jane
was not enjoying herself; and the country looked less beautiful to me
than it had done at first. One night I suddenly awoke, to find that
she was sitting up in bed, and in an attitude of expectation.

“My dear, what is the matter with you?”

“Oh, hush! I am sure that I hear footsteps on the stairs--footsteps
creeping up and down.”

I listened with her, but could detect no sound whatever.

“Lie down again, Jane--it is only your imagination. Every one is fast
asleep in bed.”

“I assure you, Arthur, I am not mistaken. Once they came quite near
the door.”

“If so, it can only be one of the servants. You don’t wish me to get
up and encounter Mary or Susan in her night-dress, do you? Consider my
morals!”

“Oh no, of course not,” she replied with a faint smile; yet it was
some time before she fell to sleep again.

It was not many nights before my wife roused me again with the same
complaint.

“Arthur, don’t call me silly, but I am _certain_ I heard something.”

To appease her fears, I shook off my drowsiness, and, with a lighted
candle, made a tour of the house; but all was as I had left it.

Once, indeed, I imagined that I heard at my side the sound of a quick
breathing; but that I knew must be sheer fancy, since I was alone.

The only circumstance that startled me was finding Dawson, the man
servant, who slept on the ground floor, also awake, and listening at
his door.

“What roused you, Dawson?”

“Well, sir, I can hardly say; but I fancied I heard some one going up
the stairs a little while ago.”

“You heard me coming down, you mean.”

“No, sir, begging your pardon, it was footsteps going up--lighter than
yours, sir. More like those of a woman.”

Yet, though I privately interrogated the female servants on the
following day, I could not discover that any of them had been out of
their beds; and I forbore to tell my wife what Dawson had said in
corroboration of her statement.

Only I was as much annoyed as astonished when, as I finished my
catechism of Mary, our head nurse, she informed me that she had made
up her mind to leave our service. Mary--my wife’s right hand--who had
been with us ever since the birth of our first child! The announcement
took me completely aback.

“What on earth is your reason for leaving us?” I demanded angrily; for
I knew what a blow her decision would be to Jane. “What have you to
find fault with?”

“Nothing with you or the mistress, sir; but I can’t remain in this
house. I wouldn’t stay in it a night longer, if it were possible to
get away; and I do hope you and Mrs. Delamere will let me go as soon
as ever you can, sir, as it will be the death of me.”

“What will be the death of you?”

“The footsteps, sir, and the voices,” she answered, crying. “I can
hear them about the nurseries all night long, and it’s more than any
mortal can stand--it is, indeed.”

“Are you infected with the same folly?” I exclaimed. “I see what it
is, Dawson has been talking to you. I didn’t know I had such a couple
of fools in my establishment.”

“Mr. Dawson has said nothing to me about nothing, sir,” she answered.
“I hear what I hear with my own ears; and I wouldn’t stay a week
longer in this ’aunted place, not if you was to strew the floor with
golden guineas for me.”

Not possessing either the capability or the inclination to test Mary’s
fidelity by the means she alluded to, and finding her determination
unalterable, I gave her the desired permission to depart; only making
it a stipulation that she should not tell her mistress the real reason
for her leaving us, but ascribe it to bad news from home, or any other
cause.

But though I could not but believe that the woman’s idiotic terrors
had blinded her judgment, I was extremely surprised to find she should
have been so led astray, as I had always considered Mary to possess a
remarkably clear head and good moral sense. The wailing and
lamentation, from both mother and children, at the announcement of her
departure made me still more angry with her obstinacy and folly. But
she continued resolute; and we were driven to try and secure some one
to fulfil her duties from the neighbouring town. But here a strange
difficulty met us. We saw several fresh, rosy-cheeked maidens, who
appeared quite willing to undertake our service, until they heard
where we resided, when by an extraordinary coincidence, one and all
discovered that some insurmountable obstacle prevented their coming at
all. When the same thing had occurred several times in succession, and
Jane appeared worn out with disappointment and fatigue, the landlord
of the inn where we had put up for the day appeared at the door, and
beckoned me out.

“May I make bold enough to ask if you want a servant to go to
Rushmere?” he inquired of me in a whisper.

“Certainly, we do. Our nurse has been obliged to leave us suddenly,
and we want some one to supply her place.”

“Then you may give it up as a bad job, sir; for you’ll never get one
of the country people here about to set a foot in Rushmere--not if you
were to live there till the day of your death.”

“And why not?” I demanded, with affected ignorance.

“What, haven’t you heard nothing since you’ve been there, sir?”

“Heard? What should I have heard, except the ordinary noises of the
household?”

“Well, you’re lucky if you’ve escaped so far,” returned the landlord,
mysteriously; “but it ain’t for long. No one who lives in Rushmere
lives there _alone_. I can tell you the whole story if you like?”

“I have no desire to listen to any such folly,” I replied, testily. “I
am not superstitious, and do not believe in supernatural sights or
sounds. If the people round about here are foolish enough to do so, I
cannot help it; but I will not have the minds of my wife or family
imbued with their nonsense.”

“Very good, sir; I hope you may be able to say as much two months
hence,” said the man, civilly.

And so we parted.

I returned to Janie, and persuaded her he had told me that all the
girls of that town had a strong objection to leave it, which was the
reason they refused to take service in the country. I reminded her
that Susan was quite competent to take charge of the whole flock until
we returned to London; and it would be better after all to put up with
a little inconvenience than to introduce a stranger to the nursery. So
my wife, who was disappointed with the failure of her enterprise, fell
in with my ideas, and we returned to Rushmere, determined to do as
best we could with Susan only.

But I could not forget the landlord’s earnestness, and,
notwithstanding my incredulity, began to wish we were well out of
Rushmere.

For a few days after Mary’s departure we slept in peace; but then the
question of the mysterious footsteps assumed a graver aspect, for my
wife and I were roused from deep slumber one night by a loud knock
upon the bedroom door, and springing up to answer it, I encountered,
on the threshold, Dawson, pale with fright, and trembling in every
limb.

“What do you mean by alarming your mistress in this way?” I inquired,
angrily.

“I’m very sorry, sir,” he replied, with chattering teeth, “but I
thought it my duty to let you know. There’s some one in the house
to-night, sir. I can hear them whispering together at this moment; and
so can you, if you will but listen.”

I advanced at once to the banisters, and certainly heard what seemed
to be the sound of distant voices engaged in altercation; and, light
in hand, followed by Dawson, I dashed down the staircase without
further ceremony, in hopes of trapping the intruders.

But all in vain. Though we entered every room in turn, not a soul was
visible.

I came to the conclusion that the whole alarm was due to Dawson’s
cowardice.

“You contemptible fool, you are as chicken-hearted as a woman!” I
said, contemptuously. “You hear the frogs croaking in the mere, or the
wind blowing through the rushes, and you immediately conclude the
house is full of thieves.”

“I didn’t say it was thieves,” the man interposed, sullenly; but I
took no notice of the muttered remark.

“If you are afraid to sleep downstairs by yourself,” I continued, “say
so; but don’t come alarming your mistress again, in the middle of the
night, for I won’t allow it.”

The man slunk back into his room, with a reiteration that he had not
been mistaken; and I returned to bed, full of complaints at having
been so unnecessarily roused.

“If this kind of thing goes on,” I remarked to my wife,” I shall
regret ever having set eyes on Rushmere. That a pack of silly
maid-servants should see a robber in every bush is only to be
expected; but how a sensible man like Dawson, and a woman of education
like yourself, can permit your imagination to betray you into such
foolish fears, is quite past my comprehension.”

Yet, notwithstanding my dose of philosophy, poor Jane looked so pale
upon the following morning, that I was fain to devise and carry into
execution a little excursion into the neighbouring country before she
regained her usual composure.

Some time passed without any further disturbance, and though upon
several occasions I blamed myself for having brought a family, used to
a populous city like London, to vegetate in so isolated a spot as
Rushmere, I had almost forgotten the circumstances that had so much
annoyed me.

We had now spent a month in our temporary home. The fields and
hedgerows were bright with summer flowers, and the children passed
most of their time tumbling amongst the new-mown hay. Janie had once
more regained courage to sit by herself in the dusk, and to rest with
tolerable security when she went to bed. I was rejoicing in the idea
that all the folly that had marred the pleasure of our arrival at
Rushmere had died a natural death, when it was vividly and painfully
recalled to my mind by its actual recurrence.

Our second girl, a delicate little creature of about six years old,
who, since the departure of her nurse, had slept in a cot in the same
room as ourselves, woke me up in the middle of the night by
exclaiming, in a frightened, plaintive voice, close to my ear,--

“Papa! papa! do you hear the footsteps? Some one is coming up the
stairs!”

The tone was one of terror, and it roused my wife and myself
instantly. The child was cold, and shaking all over with alarm, and I
placed her by her mother’s side before I left the room to ascertain if
there was any truth in her assertion.

“Arthur, Arthur! I hear them as plainly as can be,” exclaimed my wife,
who was as terrified as the child. “They are on the second landing,
There is no mistake about it this time.”

I listened at the half-opened door, and was compelled to agree with
her. From whatever cause they arose, footsteps were to be distinctly
heard upon the staircase--sometimes advancing, and then retreating, as
though afraid to venture farther; but, still, not to be mistaken for
anything but the sound of feet.

With a muttered exclamation, I seized my revolver.

“Don’t be alarmed,” I said, hurriedly; “there is not the slightest
occasion for it. And, whatever happens, do not venture on the landing.
I shall be quite safe.”

And without further preamble, only desirous to settle the business
once for all, and give the intruders on my domains a sharp lesson on
the laws of _meum_ and _tuum_, I sprang down the staircase. I had not
stayed to strike a light; but the moon was shining blandly in at the
uncurtained passage window, and the landing was as bright as day. Yet
I saw no one there. The thief (if thief it were) must have already
taken the alarm, and descended to the lowest regions. I fancied I
could detect the same footsteps, but more distinctly marked, walk by
me with a hurried, frightened movement, accompanied by a quick,
sobbing breath; and, as I paused to consider what such a mystery could
indicate, a pair of heavily-shod feet rushed past me, or seemed to
rush, upon the stairs. I heard an angry shout commingle with a faint
cry of terror below the landing whereon I stood; then, the discharge
of a firearm, followed by a low groan of pain--and all was still.

Dark and mysterious though it appeared to be, I did not dream of
ascribing the circumstance to any but a natural cause. But there was
evidently no time for hesitation, and in another moment I had flown
down the stairs, and stood in the moonlighted hall. It was empty!
Chairs, table, hatstand, stood in their accustomed places; the
children’s garden hats and my fishing tackle were strewn about; but of
animated nature there was not a sign, of the recent scuffle not a
trace!

All was quiet, calm, and undisturbed, and, as I gazed around in mute
bewilderment, the perspiration stood in thick drops upon my brow and
chin.

My first collected thought was for my wife and the best means by which
to prevent her sharing the mystification and dread which I have no
hesitation in confessing that I now experienced; but as I turned to
remount the staircase, I caught sight of some dark mass lying at the
further end of the passage, and going up to it, found to my surprise
the body of Dawson, cold and insensible.

The explanation of the mystery was before me--so I immediately
determined. The man, whom I knew to be replete with superstitious
terror, imagining he heard the unaccountable noise of footsteps, had
evidently supplied that which had reached my ear, and in his alarm at
my approach had discharged his firearm at the supposed marauder.
Pleasant for me if he had taken a better aim: So I thought as I
dragged his unconscious body into his bedroom, and busied myself by
restoring it to sensation.

As soon as he opened his eyes, and was sufficiently recovered to
answer me, I asked,--

“What on earth made you discharge your gun, Dawson? I must take it out
of your keeping, if you are so careless about using it.”

“I didn’t fire, sir.”

“Nonsense! you don’t know what you are talking about. I heard the shot
distinctly as I came downstairs.”

“I am only telling you the truth, sir. There is the fowling-piece in
that corner. I have not drawn the trigger since you last loaded it.”

I went up and examined the weapon. What Dawson had said was correct.
It had not been used.

“Then who did fire?” I said, impatiently. “I could swear to having
heard the report.”

“And so could I, sir. It was that that knocked me over.”

“What do you mean?”

“Oh, sir, pray take the mistress and the children away from this place
as soon as possible. It’s no robbers that go up and down these stairs
of nights, sir. It’s something much worse than that.”

“Dawson, if you begin to talk such folly to me, I’ll discharge you on
the spot. I believe the whole lot of you have gone mad.”

“But listen to my story, sir. I had gone to bed last night, as tired
as possible, and thinking of nothing but getting a good long sleep.
The first thing that roused me was some one trying the handle of my
door. I lay and listened to it for some time before I was fully awake,
and then I thought maybe you wanted something out of my room, and was
trying not to wake me; so I got out of bed and opened the door. But
there was nobody there, though I fancied I heard some one breathing
hard a few yards off from me. Well, I thought to myself, sir, this is
all nonsense; so I came back to bed again, and lay down. But I
couldn’t sleep; for directly the door was closed, I heard the
footsteps again, creep, creeping along the passage and the wall, as
though some one was crouching and feeling his way as he went. Then the
handle of the door began to creak and turn again--I see it turn, sir,
with my own eyes, backwards and forwards, a dozen times in the
moonlight; and then I heard a heavier step come stumbling downstairs,
and there seemed to be a kind of scuffle. I couldn’t stand it no
longer, so I opened the door again; and then, as I’m a living
Christian, sir, I heard a woman’s voice say ‘Father!’ with a kind of
sob, and as the sound was uttered there came a report from the first
landing, and the sound of a fall, and a deep groan in the passage
below. And it seemed to go right through me, and curdle my blood, and
I fell all of a heap where you found me. And it’s nothing natural,
sir, you may take my word for it; and harm will come of your stopping
in this house.”

So saying, poor Dawson, who seemed in real earnest, fell back on his
pillow with a heavy sigh.

“Dawson,” I said, critically, “what did you eat for supper last
night?”

“You’re never going to put down what I’ve told you, sir, to supper. I
took nothing but a little cold meat, upon my word. And I was as
sensible, till that shot knocked me over, as you are this moment.”

“Do you mean to tell me that you seriously believe the report of a
firearm could have reached your ears without one having been
discharged?”

“But didn’t you say you heard it yourself, sir?”

This knocked me over, and I did not know what to answer him. In the
attempt to allay what I considered his unreasonable fear, I had
forgotten my own experience in the matter. And I knew that I had
heard, or imagined I heard, a shot fired, and it would be very
difficult for any one to persuade me I was mistaken. Still, though I
held no belief in supernatural agencies, I was an earnest student of
the philosophical and metaphysical school of Germany, and acquainted
with all the revealed wonders of magnetism and animal electricity. It
was impossible to say whether some such effect as I have described
might not have been produced upon my brain by the reflection of the
fear or fancy on that of my servant; and that as he had imagined the
concussion of firearms, so I might have instantaneously received the
impression of his mind. It was a nice question for argument, and not
one to be thought over at that moment. All my present business lay in
the effort to disabuse Dawson’s mind of the reality of the shock it
had received.

“I said I fancied I heard something like the report of a firearm; but
as none had been fired, of course I must have been mistaken. Come,
Dawson, I must go back, or Mrs. Delamere will wonder what has become
of me. I conclude you are not such a coward as to be afraid to be left
by yourself?”

“I never feared a man in my life, sir; but the strongest heart can’t
stand up against spirits.”

“Spirits!” I exclaimed, angrily. “I wonder what on earth you will talk
to me about next? Now, I’ll tell you what it is, Dawson--if I hear
anything more of this, or am disturbed again at night by your folly,
I’ll pack you back to London without a character. Do you understand
me?”

“I understand you, sir,” the man answered, humbly; and thereupon I
left him to himself.

But, as I reascended the staircase, I was not satisfied either with my
own half-formed solution of the mystery, or my servant’s reception of
my rebuke. He evidently would prefer dismissal to passing such another
night. I could read the resolution in his face, although he had not
expressed it in so many words. When I reached my wife’s room, I was
still more surprised. Janie and the child lay in a profound slumber. I
had expected to find both of them in a state of anxious terror to
learn the meaning of the noise that was going on below; but they had
evidently heard nothing. This welcome fact, however, only tended to
confirm me in the belief I had commenced to entertain, of the whole
circumstance being due to some, perhaps yet undiscovered, phase of
brain reading, and I fell to sleep, resolved to make a deeper study of
the marvels propounded by Mesmer and Kant. When I awoke, with the
bright June sun streaming in at the windows, I had naturally parted
with much of the impression of the night before. It is hard to
associate any gloomy or unnatural thoughts with the unlimited glory of
the summer’s sunshine, that streams into every nook and cranny, and
leaves no shadows anywhere. On this particular morning it seemed to
have cleared the cobwebs off all our brains. The child had forgotten
all about the occurrence of the night. I was, as usual, ready to laugh
away all ghostly fears and fancies; and even Janie seemed to regard
the matter as one of little moment.

“What was the matter last night, Arthur, dear?” she asked, when the
subject recurred to her memory. “I was so sleepy I couldn’t keep awake
till you came up again.”

“Didn’t you hear the fearful battle I held with the goblins in the
hall?” I demanded, gaily, though I put the question with a
purpose--“the shots that were exchanged between us, and the groans of
the defeated, as they slunk away into their haunted coal-cellars and
cupboards?”

“Arthur, what nonsense! Was there any noise?”

“Well, I frightened Dawson, and Dawson frightened me; and we squabbled
over it for the best part of an hour. I thought our talking might have
disturbed you.”

“Indeed, it didn’t, then. But don’t mention it before Cissy, Arthur,
even in fun, for she declares she heard some one walking about the
room, and I want her to forget it.”

I dropped the subject; but meeting Dawson as I was smoking my pipe in
the garden that afternoon, I ventured to rally him on his fright of
the night before, and to ask if he hadn’t got over it by that time.

“No, sir; and I never shall,” he replied, with a sort of shiver. “And
I only hope you may come to be convinced of the truth of it before
it’s too late to prevent harm you may never cease to repent of.”

There was so much respectful earnestness in the man’s manner, that I
could not resent his words nor laugh at them, as I had done before;
and I passed by him in thoughtful silence.

What if there were more in all this than I had ever permitted myself
to imagine? What if the assertions of my man-servant, the unaffected
terror of my wife and child, the fears of my nurse, the evident
shrinking of the old woman who had charge of the house, the opposition
from the servants of the neighbouring town, combined with what I had
heard myself, were not simple chimeras of the brain--fancies
engendered by superstition or timidity or ignorance; but indications
of a power beyond our control, the beginning and the end of which may
alike remain unknown until all things are revealed? I had, with the
majority of educated men, manfully resisted all temptation to believe
in the possibility of spirits, of whatever grade, making themselves
either seen or heard by mortal senses. I use the word “manfully,”
although I now believe it to be the height of manliness to refuse to
discredit that which we cannot disprove, and to have sufficient
humility to accept the belief that there are more things in heaven and
earth than are dreamt of in our philosophy. But at that juncture I
should have considered such a concession both childish and cowardly.
Yet, there was sufficient doubt in my mind, notwithstanding the
glorious June sun, respecting my adventure of the night before, that I
resolved, whatever happened, that I would satisfy myself as to the
value of the fears of those about me.

I could not keep my wife and children in a house where they might be
liable at any moment to be frightened out of their seven senses, from
whatever cause, without ascertaining the reason of it. Some reason
there must be, either natural or otherwise; and I determined, if
possible, to learn it that very night. I would not tell Dawson or
anyone of my intention; but I would keep watch and ward in the old
parlour on the ground floor, so as to be ready to rush out at a
moment’s notice, and seize any intruder who might attempt to disturb
us. I still believed--I could not but believe--that the footsteps
which so many of us had heard were due to some trickster, who wished
to play upon our nerves in that lonely old house. I had heard of such
things being done, purposely to keep visitors away; and I determined,
whosoever it might be, whether our own servants or strangers, that
they must take their chance of being shot down like any other robber.

According to my resolution, I said nothing to Janie, but tried to
render the evening as cheerful and merry a one as possible.

I ordered strawberries and cream into the hayfield, and played with my
troop of little ones there, until they were so tired they could hardly
walk for the short distance that lay between them and their beds. As
soon as they were dismissed, and we had returned to the house, I laid
aside the newspapers that had arrived by that morning’s post, and
which I usually reserved for the evening’s delectation, and taking my
wife upon my knee, as in the dear old courting days, talked to her
until she had forgotten everything but the topics on which we
conversed, and had no time to brood upon the coming night, and the
fears it usually engendered. Then, as a last duty, I carried to Dawson
with my own hands a strong decoction of brandy and water, with which
I had mixed something that I knew, under ordinary circumstances, must
make him sleep till daylight.

“Drink this,” I said to him. “From whatever cause, our nerves were
both shaken last night, and a little stimulant will do neither of us
harm.”

“Thank you, sir,” he replied, as he finished the tumbler at a draught;
“I don’t deny I’m glad to have it. I dread the thoughts of the night
before us.”

“Lock your door on the inside,” I added as I left him, “and don’t get
up whether the handle moves or not. Then, at all events, you will feel
secure till the morrow.”

“Keys won’t keep _them_ out,” muttered Dawson, as he entered his
sleeping apartment.

But I would not notice the allusion, though I understood it.

I went up to bed with my wife as usual; and it was not until I saw she
was sound asleep that, habited in my dressing-gown and slippers, I
ventured to creep softly out of the room and take my way downstairs
again.

It was then about twelve o’clock. The moonlight was as bright as it
had been the night before, and made every object distinctly visible.
From the loud snoring which proceeded from Dawson’s room, I concluded
that my opiate had taken due effect, and that I should be permitted to
hold my vigil undisturbed. In one hand I grasped a loaded revolver,
and in the other a huge knotted stick, so determined was I not to be
taken by my tormentors at a disadvantage. I turned into the general
sitting-room, which opened on the hall. All was as we had left it; and
I ensconced myself on one of the large old-fashioned sofas, trusting
to my curiosity to keep me awake.

It was weary waiting. I heard one and then two sound from the big
clock in the hall; still there was no other noise to break the
silence. I began to relapse into my first belief that the whole
business was due to imagination. From this I passed to
self-satisfaction; self-satisfaction induced inertion, and inertion
brought on heavy sleep. How long I slept I do not know, but I had
reason afterwards to think, not more than half-an-hour.

However, that point is immaterial. But what waked me--waked me so
completely that in a moment all my faculties were as clear as
daylight--was the sound of a hoarse breathing. I sat up on the sofa
and rubbed my eyes.

The room was fully lighted by the moon. I could see into each corner.
Nothing was visible. The sound I had heard must then have proceeded
from outside the door, which was open; and I turned towards it, fully
expecting to see Dawson enter in a somnambulistic condition, brought
on by his dreams and my soporific.

But he did not appear. I rose and looked into the hall. It was empty,
as before. Still the breathing continued, and (as I, with now
fully-awakened faculties, discovered) proceeded from a corner of the
parlour where stood an old-fashioned secretary and a chair. Not daring
to believe my senses, I advanced to the spot and listened attentively.
The sound continued, and was unmistakably palpable. The breathing was
hoarse and laboured, like that of an old man who was suffering from
bronchitis or asthma. Every now and then it was interrupted by a
short, roupy cough. What I suffered under this mysterious influence I
can hardly tell. Interest and curiosity got the better of my natural
horror; but even then I could not but feel that there was something
very awful in this strange contact of sound without sight. Presently
my eyes were attracted by the chair, which was pushed, without any
visible agency, towards the wall. Something rose--I could hear the
action of the feet. Something moved--I could hear it approaching the
spot where I stood motionless. Something brushed past me, almost
roughly--I could feel the contact of a cloth garment against my
dressing-gown, and heard the sound of coarsely shod feet leaving the
room. My hair was almost standing on end with terror; but I was
determined to follow the mystery to its utmost limits, whether my
curiosity were satisfied by the attempt or not.

I rushed after the clumping feet into the hall; and I heard them
slowly and painfully, and yet most distinctly, commence to toil up the
staircase. But before they had reached the first landing, and just as
I was about to follow in their wake, my attention was distracted by
another sound, which appeared to be close at my elbow--the sound of
which Dawson had complained the night before--that of a creeping step,
and a stifled sobbing, as though a woman were feeling her way along
the passage in the dark. I could discern the feeble touch as it felt
along the wall, and then placed an uncertain hold upon the
banisters--could hear the catching breath, which dared not rise into a
cry, and detect the fear which caused the feet to advance and retreat,
and advance a little way again, and then stop, as though dread of some
unknown calamity overpowered every other feeling. Meanwhile, the
clumping steps, that had died away in the distance, turned, and
appeared to be coming downstairs again. The moon streamed brightly in
at the landing window. Had a form been visible, it would have been as
distinctly seen as by day. I experienced a sense of coming horror, and
drew back in the shadow of the wall. As the heavy footsteps gained the
lower landing, I heard a start--a scuffle--a faint cry of “Father!”
and then a curse--the flash of a firearm--a groan--and I remember
nothing more.

When I recovered my consciousness, I was lying on the flat of my back
in the passage, as I had found poor Dawson the night before, and the
morning sun was shining full upon my face. I sat up, rubbed my eyes,
and tried to remember how I had come there. Surely the moon had looked
in at that window when I saw it last. Then in a moment came back upon
my mind all that I had heard whilst holding my vigil during the past
night; and I sprang to my feet, to see if I could discover any traces
of the tragedy which seemed to have been enacted in my very presence.

But it was in vain I searched the parlour, the passage, and the
stairs. Everything remained in its usual place. Even the chair, which
I could swear I saw pushed against the wall, was now standing primly
before the secretary, and the door of the room was closed, as it
usually was when we retired for the night. I slunk up to my
dressing-room, anxious that my wife should not discover that I had
never retired to rest; and having plunged my head and face into cold
water, took my way across the sunlighted fields, to see if the fresh
morning air might not be successful in clearing away the confusion
with which my brain was oppressed. But I had made up my mind on one
point, and that was that we would move out of Rushmere as soon as it
was possible to do so. After a stroll of a couple of hours, I
re-approached the house. The first person I encountered was the under
nurse, Susan, who ran to meet me with a perturbed countenance.

“Oh, sir, I’m so thankful you’ve come back! Dawson has been looking
for you for the last hour, for poor missus is so ill, and we don’t
know what on earth to do with her.”

“Ill! In what way?” I demanded quickly.

“That’s what we can’t make out, sir. Miss Cissy came up crying to the
nursery, the first thing this morning, to tell me that her mamma had
tumbled out of bed, and wouldn’t speak to her; and she couldn’t find
her papa. So I ran downstairs directly, sir; and there I found my
mistress on the ground, quite insensible, and she hasn’t moved a limb
since.”

“Good heavens!” I inwardly exclaimed, as I ran towards the house, “is
it possible she can have been affected by the same cause?”

I found Janie, as the nurse had said, unconscious; and it was some
time before my remedies had any effect on her. When she opened her
eyes, and understood the condition she had been in, she was seized
with such a fit of nervous terror that she could do nothing but cling
to me, and entreat me to take her away from Rushmere.

Remembering my own experience, I readily promised her that she should
not sleep another night in the house if she did not desire it. Soothed
by my words, she gradually calmed down, and was at last able to relate
the circumstance which had so terrified her.

“Did you sleep in my room last night, dear Arthur?” she asked,
curiously.

“I did not. But since you awoke, you surely must have been aware of my
absence.”

“I know nothing, and remember nothing, except the awful horror that
overpowered me. I had gone to sleep very happy last night, and none of
my silly fears, as you have called them, ever entered my head. Indeed,
I think I was in the midst of some pleasant dream, when I was awakened
by the sound of a low sobbing by the bedside. Oh, such a strange,
unearthly sobbing” (with a shudder). “I thought at first it must be
poor little Cissy, who had been frightened again, and I put out my
hand to her, saying,--

“‘Don’t be afraid, dear. I am here.’

“Directly, a hand was placed in mine--a cold, damp hand, with a
deathlike, clayey feel about it that made me tremble. I knew at once
it was not the child’s hand, and I started up in bed, exclaiming,--

“‘Who are you?’

“The room was quite dark, for I had pinned my shawl across the blind
to keep the moon out of my eyes before I went to bed, and I could
distinguish nothing. Yet still the cold, damp hand clung to mine, and
seemed to strike the chill of death into my very bones. When I said,
‘Who are you?’ something replied to me. I cannot say it was a voice.
It was more like some one hissing at me through closed teeth, but I
could distinguish the name ‘Emily.’

“I was so frightened, Arthur, I did not know what to do. I wrenched my
hand away from the dead hand. You were not there, and I called out
loudly. I would have leaped out of bed, but that I heard the creeping
footsteps, accompanied by the sobbing breath, go round the room,
crying, ‘Father, father!’

“My blood seemed to curdle in my veins. I could not stir until it was
gone. I heard it leave the room distinctly, although the door was
never opened, and walk upon the landing as though to go downstairs. I
was still sitting up in bed listening--listening--only waiting till
the dreadful thing had quite gone away, to seek your presence, when I
heard a heavy step clumping downstairs, then the report of a gun. I
don’t know _what_ I thought. I remember nothing that followed; but I
suppose I jumped out of bed with the intention of finding you, and
fainted before I could reach the dressing-room. Oh, Arthur! what was
it? What is it that haunts this house, and makes even the sunshine
look as gloomy as night? Oh, take us away from it, or I am sure that
something terrible will happen!”

“I _will_ take you away from it, my dear. We will none of us sleep
another night beneath its roof. What curse hangs over it, I cannot
tell; but whether the strange sounds we have heard proceed from
natural or supernatural causes, they alike render Rushmere no home for
us. We will go to the hotel at ---- this very day, Janie, and deliver
up the keys of Rushmere again to Messrs. Quibble & Lye.”

I then related to her my own experience, and that of Dawson; and
though she trembled a little whilst listening to me, the idea of
leaving the place before nightfall rendered the heavy fear less
alarming than it would otherwise have been.

The servants, upon learning the resolution we had arrived at, were
only too ready to help us to carry it out. Our personal possessions
were packed in an incredibly short time, and we sat down that evening
to a comfortable family dinner in the good old-fashioned inn at ----.
As soon as the meal was concluded, and the children sent to bed, I
said to my wife,--

“Janie, I am going to ring for the landlord, to see if he can throw
any light on the cause of our experiences. I never told you that, when
we came to this inn to try for a nurse to supply Mary’s place, he
informed me that nobody from his country-side would live at Rushmere;
and asked me, in a manner which assured me he could have said more if
he had chosen, if we had not heard anything whilst there. I laughed at
the question then, but I do not feel so disposed to laugh at it now;
and I am going to beg him to tell me all he may know. If nothing more,
his story may form the stratum of a curious psychological study. Would
you like to be present at our interview?”

“Oh yes, Arthur; I have quite recovered my nerves since I’ve lost
sight of Rushmere, and I feel even curious to learn all I can upon the
subject. That poor, sobbing voice that whispered ‘Emily’--I shall not
forget its sound to my dying day.”

“Ring the bell, dear, and let us ask if the landlord is at leisure. To
my mind, your experience of the details of this little tragedy appears
the most interesting of all.”

The landlord, a Mr. Browser, entered at once; and as soon as he heard
my request, made himself completely at home with us.

“After the little rebuff you gave me t’other day, I shouldn’t have
ventured to say nothing, sir; but when I see your family getting out
of the fly this afternoon, I says to Mrs. Browser, ‘If that don’t mean
that they can’t stand Rushmere another night, I’m a pumpkin.’ And I
suppose, now, it did mean it, sir?”

“You are quite right, Mr. Browser. The noises and voices about the
house have become so intolerable, that it is quite impossible I can
keep my family there. Still, I must tell you that, though I have been
unable to account for the disturbances, I do not necessarily believe
they are attributable to spirits. It is because I do not believe so
that I wish to hear all you may be able to tell us, in order, if
possible, to find a reason for what appears at present to be
unreasonable.”

“Well, sir, you shall hear, as you say, all we have to tell you, and
then you can believe what you like. But it ain’t I as can relate the
story, sir. Mrs. Browser knows a deal more than I do; and with your
leave, and that of this good lady here, I’ll call her to give you the
history of Rushmere.”

At this information, we displayed an amount of interest that resulted
in a hasty summons for Mrs. Browser. She was a fat, fair woman, of
middle age, with ruddy cheeks, and a clear blue eye--not at all like a
creature haunted by her own weak imagination, or who would be likely
to mistake a shadow for a substance. Her appearance inspired me with
confidence. I trusted that her relation might furnish me with some
clue to the solution of the occurrences that had so confounded us.
Safe out of the precincts of Rushmere, and with the lapse of twelve
hours since the unaccountable swoon I had been seized with, my
practical virtues were once more in the ascendant, and I was inclined
to attribute our fright to anything but association with the
marvellous.

“Be I to tell the story from the beginning, Browser?” was the first
sentence that dropped from Mrs. Browser’s lips.

Her lord and master nodded an affirmative, whereupon she began:--

“When the gentleman as built Rushmere for his own gratification, sir,
died, the house let well enough. But the place proved lonely, and
there was more than one attempt at robbery, and people grew tired of
taking it. And above all, the girls of the village began to refuse to
go to service there. Well, it had been standing empty for some months,
when a gentleman and his wife came to look after it. Browser and I--we
didn’t own this inn at that time, you will understand, sir, but kept a
general shop in the village, and were but poorly off altogether,
although we had the post-office at our place, and did the best
business thereabouts. The key of Rushmere used always to be left in
our keeping, too, and our boy would go up to show folks over the
house. Well, one damp autumn day--I mind the day as if ’twere
yesterday, for Browser had been ailing sadly with the rheumatics for
weeks past, and not able to lift his hand to his head--this gentleman
and lady, who went by the name of Greenslade, came for the keys of
Rushmere. I remember thinking Mr. Greenslade had a nasty, curious look
about his eyes, and that his wife seemed a poor, brow-beaten creature;
but that was no business of mine, and I sent Bill up with them to show
the house. They took it, and entered on possession at once; and then
came the difficulty about the servants. Not a soul would enter the
place at first. Then a girl or two tried it, and came away when their
month was up, saying the house was so lonesome, they couldn’t sleep at
nights, and the master was so queer-spoken and mannered, they were
afraid of him.”

“Don’t forget to say what he was used to do at nights,” here put in
the landlord.

“La, Browser, I’m a-coming to it. Everything in its time. Well, sir,
at last it came to this, that Mrs. Greenslade hadn’t a creature to
help her in anythink, and down she came to ask if I would go to them
for a few days. I stared; for there was the shop to be tended, and the
post-office looked after, and I hadn’t been used to odd jobs like
that. But my husband said that he could do all that was wanted in the
business; and we were very hard drove just then, and the lady offered
such liberal pay, he over-persuaded me to go, if only on trial. So I
put my pride in my pocket, and went out charing. I hadn’t been at
Rushmere many days, sir, before I found something was very wrong
there. Mr. Greenslade hardly ever spoke a word, but shut himself up in
a room all day, or went mooning about the fields and common, where he
couldn’t meet a soul; and as for the poor lady, la! my heart bled for
her, she seemed so wretched and broken-down and hopeless. I used often
to say to her--

“‘Now, ma’am, do let me cook you a bit of something nice, for you’ve
eaten nothing since yesterday, and you’ll bring yourself down to
death’s door at this rate.’

“And she’d answer,--

“‘No, thank you, Mrs. Browser: I couldn’t touch it. I feel sometimes
as if I’d never care to eat or drink again.’

“And Mr. Greenslade, he was just as bad. They didn’t eat enough to
keep a well-grown child between the two of them.”

“What-aged people were they?” I asked.

“Well, sir, I can hardly say; they weren’t young nor yet old. Mr.
Greenslade, he may have been about fifty, and his lady a year or two
younger; but I never took much count of that. But the gentleman looked
much the oldest of the two, by reason of a stoop in his shoulders and
a constant cough that seemed to tear his chest to pieces. I’ve known
him shut himself up in the parlour the whole night long, coughing away
fit to keep the whole house awake. And his breathing, sir--you could
hear it half a mile off.”

“He was _assmatical_, poor man! that’s where it was,” interposed Mr.
Browser.

“Well, I don’t know what his complaint was called, Browser; but he
made noise enough over it to wake the dead. But don’t you go
interrupting me no more after that fashion, or the gentleman and lady
will never understand the half of my story, and I’m just coming to the
cream of it.”

“I assure you we are deeply interested in what you are telling us,” I
said, politely.

“It’s very good of you to compliment me, sir, but I expect it will
make matters clearer to you by-and-by. You’re not the first tenants of
Rushmere I’ve had to tell this tale to, I can tell you, and you won’t
be the last, either. One night, when I couldn’t sleep for his nasty
cough, and lay awake, wishing to goodness he’d go to bed like a
Christian, I made sure I heard footsteps in the hall, a-creeping and
a-creeping about like, as though some one was feeling their way round
the house. ‘It can’t be the mistress,’ I thought, ‘and maybe it’s
robbers, as have little idea the master’s shut up in the study.’ So I
opened the door quickly, but I could see nothing.”

“Exactly my own experience,” I exclaimed.

“Ah, sir, maybe; but they weren’t the same footsteps, poor dear. I
wish they had been, and she had the same power to tread now she had
then. The hall was empty; but at the same time I heard the master
groaning and cursing most awful in the parlour, and I went into my own
room again, that I mightn’t listen to his wicked oaths and words. I
always hated and distrusted that man from the beginning. The next day
I mentioned I had heard footsteps, before ’em both, and the rage Mr.
Greenslade put himself into was terrible. He said no robbers had
better break into his house, or he’d shoot them dead as dogs.
Afterwards his wife came to me and asked me what sort of footsteps
they seemed; and when I told her, she cried upon my neck, and begged
me if I ever heard a woman’s step to say nothing of it to her husband.

“‘A woman’s step, ma’am,’ I replied; ‘why, what woman would dare break
into a house?’

“But she only cried the more, and held her tongue.

“But that evening I heard their voices loud in the parlour, and there
was a regular dispute between them.

“‘If ever she could come, Henry,’ Mrs. Greenslade said, ‘promise me
you won’t speak to her unless you can say words of pity or of
comfort.’

“‘Pity!’ he yelled, ‘what pity has she had for me? If ever she or any
emissary of hers should dare to set foot upon these premises, I shall
treat them as house-breakers, and shoot them down like dogs.’

“‘Oh no! Henry, no!’ screamed the poor woman; ‘think who she is. Think
of her youth, her temptation, and forgive her.’

“‘I’ll never forgive her--I’ll never own her,’ the wretch answered
loudly; ‘but I’ll treat her, or any of the cursed crew she associates
with, as I would treat strangers who forced their way in to rob me by
night. ’Twill be an evil day for them when they attempt to set foot in
my house.’

“Well, sir, I must cut this long story short, or you and your good
lady will never get to bed to-night.

“The conversation I had overheard made me feel very uncomfortable, and
I was certain some great misfortune or disgrace had happened to the
parties I was serving; but I didn’t let it rest upon my mind, till a
few nights after, when I was wakened up by the same sound of creeping
footsteps along the passage. As I sat up in bed and listened to them,
I heard the master leave the parlour and go upstairs. At the same
moment something crouched beside my door, and tried to turn the
handle; but it was locked, and wouldn’t open. I felt very uneasy. I
knew my door stood in the shadow, and that whoever crouched there must
have been hidden from Mr. Greenslade as he walked across the hall.
Presently I heard his footsteps coming downstairs again, as though he
had forgotten something. He used to wear such thick boots, sir, you
might hear his step all over the house. His loaded gun always stood on
the first landing; when he reached there he stopped, I suppose it was
his bad angel made him stop. Anyway, there was a low cry of ‘Father,
father!’--a rush, the report of the gun, a low groan, and then all was
still.

“La! sir, I trembled so in my bed, you might have seen it shake under
me.”

“I’ve seen it shake under you many a time,” said Browser.

“Perhaps you would like to tell the lady and gentleman my exact
weight, though I don’t see what that’s got to do with the story,”
replied his better half, majestically.

“I don’t think I should ever have had the courage to leave my room,
sir, unless I had heard my poor mistress fly down the staircase, with
a loud scream. Then I got up, and joined her. Oh, it was an awful
sight! There, stretched on the floorcloth, lay the dead body of a
young girl; and my mistress had fainted dead away across her, and was
covered with the blood that was pouring from a great hole in her
forehead. On the landing stood my master, white as a sheet, and
shaking like an aspen leaf.

“‘So, this is your doing!’ I cried, angrily. ‘You’re a nice man to
have charge of a gun. Do you see what you’ve done? Killed a poor girl
in mistake for a robber, and nearly killed your wife into the bargain.
Who is this poor murdered young creature? Do you know her?’

“‘Know her!’ he repeated, with a groan. ‘Woman, don’t torture me with
your questions. _She is my own daughter!_’

“He rushed upstairs as he spoke, and I was in a nice quandry, left
alone with the two unconscious women. When my poor mistress woke up
again, she wanted me to fetch a doctor; but it would have been of no
use. She was past all human help.

“We carried the corpse upstairs between us, and laid it gently on the
bed. I’ve often wondered since where the poor mother’s strength came
from, but it was lent her for the need. Then, sitting close to me for
the remainder of the night, she told me her story--how the poor girl
had led such an unhappy life with her harsh, ill-tempered father, that
she had been tempted into a foolish marriage by the first lover that
offered her affection and a peaceful home.

“‘I always hoped she would come back to us,’ said Mrs. Greenslade,
‘for her husband had deserted her, leaving her destitute; and yet,
although she knew how to enter the house unobserved, I dreaded her
doing so, because of her father’s bitter enmity. Only last night, Mrs.
Browser, I awoke from sleep, and fancied I heard a sobbing in my room.
I whispered, “Who is there?” And a voice replied “Emily!” But I
thought it was a dream. If I had known--if I had but known!’

“She lay so quiet and uncomplaining on my knee, only moving now and
then, that she frightened me; and when the morning broke, I tried to
shift her, and said,--

“‘Hadn’t I better go and see after the master, ma’am?’

“As I mentioned his name, I could see the shudder that ran through her
frame, but she motioned me away with her hand.

“I went upstairs to a room Mr. Greenslade called his dressing-room,
and where I guessed he’d gone; and you’ll never believe, sir, the
awful sight as met my eyes. I didn’t get over it for a month--did I,
Browser?”

“You haven’t got over it to this day, I’m sometimes thinking, missus.”

“That means I’m off my head; but if it wasn’t for my head, I wonder
where the business would go to. No, sir--if you’ll believe me, when I
entered the room, there was the old man dead as mutton, hanging from a
beam in the ceiling. I gave one shriek, and down I fell.”

“I don’t wonder at it,” cried Janie.

“Well, ma’am, when I came to again, all was confusion and misery. We
had the perlice in, and the crowner’s inquest, and there was such a
fuss, you never see. Some of Mrs. Greenslade’s friends came and
fetched her away; but I heard she didn’t live many months afterwards.
As for myself, I was only too glad to get back to the shop and my old
man, and the first words I said to him was,--

“‘No more charing for me.’

“And now, sir, if I may make so bold, what do you think of the story?”
demanded the landlord. “Can you put this and that together now?”

“It is marvellous,” I replied. “Your wife has simply repeated the
scene which we have heard enacted a dozen times in Rushmere. The
footsteps were a nightly occurrence.”

“I heard the voice!” exclaimed Janie, “and it whispered ‘_Emily_.’”

“The handle of my servant’s door was turned. The report of the gun was
as distinct as possible.”

“That is what everybody says as goes to Rushmere, sir. No one can
abide the place since that awful murder was committed there,” said
Mrs. Browser.

“And can you account for it in any way, sir?” demanded her husband,
slyly. “Do you think, now that you’ve heard the story, that the noises
are mortal, or that it’s the spirits of the dead that causes them?”

“I don’t know what to think, Browser. There is a theory that no
uttered sound is ever lost, but drifts as an eddying circle into
space, until in course of time it must be heard again. Thus our evil
words, too often accompanied by evil deeds, live for ever, to testify
against us in eternity. It may be that the Universal Father ordains
that some of His guilty children shall expurgate their crimes by
reacting them until they become sensible of their enormity; but this
can be but a matter for speculation. This story leaves us, as such
stories usually do, as perplexed as we were before. We cannot tell--we
probably never _shall_ tell--what irrefragable laws of the universe
these mysterious circumstances fulfil; but we know that spirit and
matter alike are in higher hands than ours; and, whilst nature cannot
help trembling when brought in contact with the supernatural, we have
no need to fear that it will ever be permitted to work us harm.”

This little analysis was evidently too much for Mr. and Mrs. Browser,
who, with a look of complete mystification on their countenances, rose
from their seats, and wished us respectfully good-night; leaving Janie
and me to evolve what theories we chose from the true story of the
Invisible Tenants of Rushmere.
