THE STORY OF YAND MANOR HOUSE

By looking through the notes of Mr. Flaxman Low, one sometimes catches
through the steel-blue hardness of facts, the pink flush of romance,
or more often the black corner of a horror unnameable. The following
story may serve as an instance of the latter. Mr. Low not only
unravelled the mystery at Yand, but at the same time justified his
life-work to M. Thierry, the well-known French critic and philosopher.

At the end of a long conversation, M. Thierry, arguing from his own
standpoint as a materialist, had said:

"The factor in the human economy which you call 'soul' cannot be
placed."

"I admit that," replied Low. "Yet, when a man dies, is there not one
factor unaccounted for in the change that comes upon him? Yes! For
though his body still exists, it rapidly falls to pieces, which proves
that that has gone which held it together."

The Frenchman laughed, and shifted his ground.

"Well, for my part, I don't believe in ghosts! Spirit manifestations,
occult phenomena--is not this the ashbin into which a certain clique
shoot everything they cannot understand, or for which they fail to
account?"

"Then what should you say to me, Monsieur, if I told you that I have
passed a good portion of my life in investigating this particular
ashbin, and have been lucky enough to sort a small part of its
contents with tolerable success?" replied Flaxman Low.

"The subject is doubtless interesting--but I should like to have some
personal experience in the matter," said Thierry dubiously.

"I am at present investigating a most singular case," said Low. "Have
you a day or two to spare?"

Thierry thought for a minute or more.

"I am grateful," he replied. "But, forgive me, is it a convincing
ghost?"

"Come with me to Yand and see. I have been there once already, and
came away for the purpose of procuring information from MSS. to which
I have the privilege of access, for I confess that the phenomena at
Yand lie altogether outside any former experience of mine."

Low sank back into his chair with his hands clasped behind his head--a
favourite position of his--and the smoke of his long pipe curled up
lazily into the golden face of an Isis, which stood behind him on a
bracket. Thierry, glancing across, was struck by the strange likeness
between the faces of the Egyptian goddess and this scientist of the
nineteenth century. On both rested the calm, mysterious abstraction of
some unfathomable thought. As he looked, he decided.

"I have three days to place at your disposal."

"I thank you heartily," replied Low. "To be associated with so
brilliant a logician as yourself in an inquiry of this nature is more
than I could have hoped for! The material with which I have to deal is
so elusive, the whole subject is wrapped in such obscurity and
hampered by so much prejudice, that I can find few really qualified
persons who care to approach these investigations seriously. I go down
to Yand this evening, and hope not to leave without clearing up the
mystery."

"You will accompany me?"

"Most certainly. Meanwhile pray tell me something of the affair."

"Briefly the story is as follows. Some weeks ago I went to Yand Manor
House at the request of the owner, Sir George Blackburton, to see what
I could make of the events which took place there. All they complain
of is the impossibility of remaining in one room--the dining-room."

"What then is he like, this M. le Spook?" asked the Frenchman,
laughing.

"No one has ever seen him, or for that matter heard him."

"Then how--"

"You can't see him, nor hear him, nor smell him," went on Low, "but
you can feel him and---taste him!"

"Mon Dieu! But this is singular! Is he then of so bad a flavour?"

"You shall taste for yourself," answered Flaxman Low smiling. "After a
certain hour no one can remain in the room, they are simply crowded
out."

"But who crowds them out?" asked Thierry.

"That is just what I hope we may discover to-night or tomorrow."

The last train that night dropped Mr. Flaxman Low and his companion at
a little station near Yand. It was late, but a trap in waiting soon
carried them to the Manor House. The big bulk of the building stood up
in absolute blackness before them.

"Blackburton was to have met us, but I suppose he has not yet
arrived," said Low. "Hullo! the door is open," he added as he stepped
into the hall.

Beyond a dividing curtain they now perceived a light. Passing behind
this curtain they found themselves at the end of the long hall, the
wide staircase opening up in front of them.

"But who is this?" exclaimed Thierry.

Swaying and stumbling at every step, there tottered slowly down the
stairs the figure of a man.

He looked as if he had been drinking, his face was livid, and his eyes
sunk into his head.

"Thank Heaven you've come! I heard you outside," he said in a weak
voice.

"It's Sir George Blackburton," said Low, as the man lurched forward
and pitched into his arms.

They laid him down on the rugs and tried to restore consciousness.

"He has the air of being drunk, but it is not so," remarked Thierry.
"Monsieur has had a bad shock of the nerves. See the pulses drumming
in his throat."

In a few minutes Blackburton opened his eyes and staggered to his
feet.

"Come. I could not remain there alone. Come quickly."

They went rapidly across the hall, Blackburton leading the way down a
wide passage to a double-leaved door, which, after a perceptible
pause, he threw open, and they all entered together.

On the great table in the centre stood an extinguished lamp, some
scattered food, and a big, lighted candle. But the eyes of all three
men passed at once to a dark recess beside the heavy, carved
chimneypiece, where a rigid shape sat perched on the back of a huge,
oak chair.

Flaxman Low snatched up the candle and crossed the room towards it.

On the top of the chair, with his feet upon the arms, sat a
powerfully-built young man huddled up. His mouth was open, and his
eyes twisted upwards. Nothing further could be seen from below but the
ghastly pallor of cheek and throat.

"Who is this?" cried Low. Then he laid his hand gently on the man's
knee.

At the touch the figure collapsed in a heap upon the floor, the
gaping, set, terrified face turned up to theirs.

"He's dead!" said Low after a hasty examination. "I should say he's
been dead some hours."

"Oh, Lord! Poor Batty!" groaned Sir George, who was entirely unnerved.
"I'm glad you've come."

"Who is he?" said Thierry, "and what was he doing here?"

"He's a gamekeeper of mine. He was always anxious to try conclusions
with the ghost, and last night he begged me to lock him in here with
food for twenty-four hours. I refused at first, but then I thought if
anything happened while he was in here alone, it would interest you.
Who could imagine it would end like this?"

"When did you find him?" asked Low.

"I only got here from my mother's half an hour ago. I turned on the
light in the hall and came in here with a candle. As I entered the
room, the candle went out, and--and--I think I must be going mad."

"Tell us everything you saw," urged Low.

"You will think I am beside myself; but as the light went out and I
sank almost paralysed into an armchair, I saw two barred eyes looking
at me!"

"Barred eyes? What do you mean?"

"Eyes that looked at me through thin vertical bars, like the bars of a
cage. What's that?"

With a smothered yell Sir George sprang back. He had approached the
dead man and declared something had brushed his face.

"You were standing on this spot under the overmantel. I will remain
here. Meantime, my dear Thierry, I feel sure you will help Sir George
to carry this poor fellow to some more suitable place," said Flaxman
Low.

When the dead body of the young gamekeeper had been carried out, Low
passed slowly round and about the room. At length he stood under the
old carved overmantel, which reached to the ceiling and projected
bodily forward in quaint heads of satyrs and animals. One of these on
the side nearest the recess represented a griffin with a flanged
mouth. Sir George had been standing directly below this at the moment
when he felt the touch on his face. Now alone in the dim, wide room,
Flaxman Low stood on the same spot and waited. The candle threw its
dull yellow rays on the shadows, which seemed to gather closer and wait
also. Presently a distant door banged, and Low, leaning forward to
listen, distinctly felt something on the back of his neck!

He swung round. There was nothing! He searched carefully on all sides,
then put his hand up to the griffin's head. Again came the same soft
touch, this time upon his hand, as if something had floated past on
the air.

This was definite. The griffin's head located it. Taking the candle to
examine more closely, Low found four long black hairs depending from
the jagged fangs. He was detaching them when Thierry reappeared.

"We must get Sir George away as soon as possible," he said.

"Yes, we must take him away, I fear," agreed Low. "Our investigation
must be put off till to-morrow."

On the following day they returned to Yand. It was a large country-
house, pretty and old-fashioned, with lattice windows and deep gables,
that looked out between tall shrubs and across lawns set with
beaupots, where peacocks sunned themselves on the velvet turf. The
church spire peered over the trees on one side; and an old wall
covered with ivy and creeping plants, and pierced at intervals with
arches, alone separated the gardens from the churchyard.

The haunted room lay at the back of the house. It was square and
handsome, and furnished in the style of the last century. The oak
overmantel reached to the ceiling, and a wide window, which almost
filled one side of the room, gave a view of the west door of the
church.

Low stood for a moment at the open window looking out at the level
sunlight which flooded the lawns and parterres.

"See that door sunk in the church wall to the left?" said Sir George's
voice at his elbow. "That is the door of the family vault. Cheerful
outlook, isn't it?"

"I should like to walk across there presently," remarked Low.

"What! Into the vault?" asked Sir George, with a harsh laugh. "I'll
take you if you like. Anything else I can show you or tell you?"

"Yes. Last night I found this hanging from the griffin's head," said
Low, producing the thin wisp of black hair. "It must have touched your
cheek as you stood below. Do you know to whom it can belong?"

"It's a woman's hair! No, the only woman who has been in this room to
my knowledge for months is an old servant with grey hair, who cleans
it," returned Blackburton. "I'm sure it was not here when I locked
Batty in."

"It is human hair, exceedingly coarse and long uncut," said Low; "but
it is not necessarily a woman's."

"It is not mine at any rate, for I'm sandy; and poor Batty was fair.
Good-night; I'll come round for you in the morning."

Presently, when the night closed in, Thierry and Low settled down in
the haunted room to await developments. They smoked and talked deep
into the night. A big lamp burned brightly on the table, and the
surroundings looked homely and desirable.

Thierry made a remark to that effect, adding that perhaps the ghost
might see fit to omit his usual visit.

"Experience goes to prove that ghosts have a cunning habit of choosing
persons either credulous or excitable to experiment upon," he added.

To M. Thierry's surprise, Flaxman Low agreed with him.

"They certainly choose suitable persons," he said, "that is, not
credulous persons, but those whose senses are sufficiently keen to
detect the presence of a spirit. In my own investigations, I try to
eliminate what you would call the supernatural element. I deal with
these mysterious affairs as far as possible on material lines."

"Then what do you say of Batty's death? He died of fright---simply."

"I hardly think so. The manner of his death agrees in a peculiar
manner with what we know of the terrible history of this room. He died
of fright and pressure combined. Did you hear the doctor's remark? It
was significant. He said: 'The indications are precisely those I have
observed in persons who have been crushed and killed in a crowd!'"

"That is sufficiently curious, I allow. I see that it is already past
two o'clock. I am thirsty; I will have a little seltzer." Thierry rose
from his chair, and, going to the side-board, drew a tumblerful from
the syphon. "Pah! What an abominable taste!"

"What? The seltzer?"

"Not at all?" returned the Frenchman irritably. "I have not touched it
yet. Some horrible fly has flown into my mouth, I suppose. Pah!
Disgusting!"

"What is it like?" asked Flaxman Low, who was at the moment wiping his
own mouth with his handkerchief.

"Like? As if some repulsive fungus had burst in the mouth."

"Exactly. I perceive it also. I hope you are about to be convinced."

"What?" exclaimed Thierry, turning his big figure round and staring at
Low. "You don't mean...� As he spoke the lamp suddenly went out.

"Why, then, have you put the lamp out at such a moment?" cried
Thierry.

"I have not put it out. Light the candle beside you on the
table."

Low heard the Frenchman's grunt of satisfaction as he found
the candle, then the scratch of a match. It sputtered and went out.
Another match and another behaved in the same manner, while Thierry
swore freely under his breath.

"Let me have your matches, Monsieur Flaxman; mine are, no doubt damp,"
he said at last.

Low rose to feel his way across the room. The darkness was dense.

"It is the darkness of Egypt--it may be felt. Where then are you, my
dear friend?" he heard Thierry saying, but the voice seemed a long way
off.

"I am coming," he answered, "but it's so hard to get along." After Low
had spoken the words, their meaning struck him.

He paused and tried to realise in what part of the room he was. The
silence was profound, and the growing sense of oppression seemed like
a nightmare. Thierry's voice sounded again, faint and receding.

"I am suffocating, Monsieur Flaxman, where are you? I am near the
door. Ach!"

A strangling bellow of pain and fear followed, that scarcely reached
Low through the thickening atmosphere.

"Thierry, what is the matter with you?" he shouted. "Open the door."

But there was no answer. What had become of Thierry in that hideous,
clogging gloom! Was he also dead, crushed in some ghastly fashion
against the wall? What was this? The air had become palpable to the
touch, heavy, repulsive, with the sensation of cold humid flesh!

Low pushed out his hands with a mad longing to touch a table, a chair,
anything but this clammy, swelling softness that thrust itself upon
him from every side, baffling him and filling his grasp.

He knew now that he was absolutely alone--struggling against what? His
feet were slipping in his wild efforts to feel the floor--the dank
flesh was creeping upon his neck, his cheek--his breath came short and
labouring as the pressure swung him gently to and fro, helpless,
nauseated!

The clammy flesh crowded upon him like the bulk of some fat, horrible
creature; then came a stinging pain on the cheek. Low clutched at
something--there was a crash and a rush of air---The next sensation of
which Mr. Flaxman Low was conscious was one of deathly sickness. He
was lying on wet grass, the wind blowing over him, and all the clean,
wholesome smells of the open air in his nostrils.

He sat up and looked about him. Dawn was breaking windily in the east,
and by its light he saw that he was on the lawn of Yand Manor House.
The latticed window of the haunted room above him was open. He tried
to remember what had happened. He took stock of himself, in fact, and
slowly felt that he still held something clutched in his right hand--
something dark-coloured, slender, and twisted. It might have been a
long shred of bark or the cast skin of an adder--it was impossible to
see in the dim light.

After an interval the recollection of Thierry recurred to him.
Scrambling to his feet, he raised himself to the window-sill and
looked in. Contrary to his expectation, there was no upsetting of
furniture; everything remained in position as when the lamp went out.
His own chair and the one Thierry had occupied were just as when they
had arisen from them. But there was no sign of Thierry.

Low jumped in by the window. There was the tumbler full of seltzer,
and the litter of matches about it. He took up Thierry's box of
matches and struck a light. It flared, and he lit the candle with
ease. In fact, everything about the room was perfectly normal; all the
horrible conditions prevailing but a couple of hours ago had
disappeared.

But where was Thierry? Carrying the lighted candle, he passed out of
the door, and searched in the adjoining rooms. In one of them, to his
relief, he found the Frenchman sleeping profoundly in an armchair.

Low touched his arm. Thierry leapt to his feet, fending off an
imaginary blow with his arm.

Then he turned his scared face on Low.

"What! You, Monsieur Flaxman! How have you escaped?"

"I should rather ask you how you escaped," said Low, smiling at the
havoc the night's experiences had worked on his friend's looks and
spirits.

"I was crowded out of the room against the door. That infernal thing--
what was it?--with its damp, swelling flesh, inclosed me!" A shudder
of disgust stopped him. "I was a fly in an aspic. I could not move. I
sank into the stifling pulp. The air grew thick. I called to you, but
your answers became inaudible. Then I was suddenly thrust against the
door by a huge hand--it felt like one, at least. I had a struggle for
my life, I was all but crushed, and then, I do not know how, I found
myself outside the door. I shouted to you in vain. Therefore, as I
could not help you, I came here, and--I will confess it, my dear
friend--I locked and bolted the door. After some time I went again
into the hall and listened; but, as I heard nothing, I resolved to
wait until daylight and the return of Sir George."

"That's all right," said Low. "It was an experience worth having."

"But, no! Not for me! I do not envy you your researches into mysteries
of this abominable description. I now comprehend perfectly that Sir
George has lost his nerve if he has had to do with this horror.
Besides, it is entirely impossible to explain these things."

At this moment they heard Sir George's arrival, and went out to meet
him.

"I could not sleep all night for thinking of you!" exclaimed
Blackburton on seeing them; "and I came along as soon as it was light.
Something has happened."

"But certainly something has happened," cried M. Thierry shaking his
head solemnly; "something of the most bizarre, of the most horrible!
Monsieur Flaxman, you shall tell Sir George this story. You have been
in that accursed room all night, and remain alive to tell the tale!"

As Low came to the conclusion of the story Sir George suddenly
exclaimed:

"You have met with some injury to your face, Mr. Low."

Low turned to the mirror. In the now strong light three parallel weals
from eye to mouth could be seen.

"I remember a stinging pain like a lash on my cheek. What would you
say these marks were caused by, Thierry?" asked Low.

Thierry looked at them and shook his head.

"No one in their senses would venture to offer any explanation of the
occurrences of last night," he replied.

"Something of this sort, do you think?" asked Low again, putting down
the object he held in his hand on the table.

Thierry took it up and described it aloud.

"A long and thin object of a brown and yellow colour and twisted like
a sabre-bladed corkscrew," then he started slightly and glanced at
Low.

"It's a human nail, I imagine," suggested Low.

"But no human being has talons of this kind--except, perhaps, a
Chinaman of high rank."

"There are no Chinamen about here, nor ever have been, to my
knowledge," said Blackburton shortly. "I'm very much afraid that, in
spite of all you have so bravely faced, we are no nearer to any
rational explanation."

"On the contrary, I fancy I begin to see my way. I believe, after all,
that I may be able to convert you, Thierry," said Flaxman Low.

"Convert me?"

"To a belief in the definite aim of my work. But you shall judge for
yourself. What do you make of it so far? I claim that you know as much
of the matter as I do."

"My dear good friend, I make nothing of it," returned Thierry,
shrugging his shoulders and spreading out his hands. "Here we have a
tissue of unprecedented incidents that can be explained on no theory
whatever."

"But this is definite," and Flaxman Low held up the blackened nail.

"And how do you propose to connect that nail with the black hairs--
with the eyes that looked through the bars of a cage--the fate of
Batty, with its symptoms of death by pressure and suffocation--our
experience of swelling flesh, that something which filled and filled
the room to the exclusion of all else? How are you going to account
for these things by any kind of connected hypothesis?" asked Thierry,
with a shade of irony.

"I mean to try," replied Low.

At lunch time Thierry inquired how the theory was getting on.

"It progresses," answered Low. "By the way, Sir George, who lived in
this house for some time prior to, say, 1840? He was a man--it may
have been a woman, but, from the nature of his studies, I am inclined
to think it was a man--who was deeply read in ancient necromancy,
Eastern magic, mesmerism, and subjects of a kindred nature. And was he
not buried in the vault you pointed out?"

"Do you know anything more about him?" asked Sir George in surprise.

"He was I imagine," went on Flaxman Low reflectively, "hirsute and
swarthy, probably a recluse, and suffered from a morbid and
extravagant fear of death."

"How do you know all this?"

"I only asked about it. Am I right?"

"You have described my cousin, Sir Gilbert Blackburton, in every
particular. I can show you his portrait in another room."

As they stood looking at the painting of Sir Gilbert Blackburton, with
his long, melancholy, olive face and thick, black beard, Sir George
went on. "My grandfather succeeded him at Yand. I have often heard my
father speak of Sir Gilbert, and his strange studies and extraordinary
fear of death. Oddly enough, in the end he died rather suddenly, while
he was still hale and strong. He predicted his own approaching death,
and had a doctor in attendance for a week or two before he died. He
was placed in a coffin he had had made on some plan of his own and
buried in the vault. His death occurred in 1842 or 1843. If you care
to see them I can show you some of his papers, which may interest
you."

Mr. Flaxman Low spent the afternoon over the papers. When evening
came, he rose from his work with a sigh of content, stretched himself,
and joined Thierry and Sir George in the garden.

They dined at Lady Blackburton's, and it was late before Sir George
found himself alone with Mr. Flaxman Low and his friend.

"Have you formed any opinion about the thing which haunts the Manor
House?" he asked anxiously.

Thierry elaborated a cigarette, crossed his legs, and added: "If you
have in truth come to any definite conclusion, pray let us hear it, my
dear Monsieur Flaxman."

"I have reached a very definite and satisfactory conclusion," replied
Low. "The Manor House is haunted by Sir Gilbert Blackburton, who died,
or, rather, who seemed to die, on the 15th of August, 1842."

"Nonsense! The nail fifteen inches long at the least--how do you
connect it with Sir Gilbert?" asked Blackburton testily.

"I am convinced that it belonged to Sir Gilbert," Low answered.

"But the long black hair like a woman's?"

"Dissolution in the case of Sir Gilbert was not complete--not
consummated, so to speak--as I hope to show you later. Even in the
case of dead persons the hair and nails have been known to grow. By a
rough calculation as to the growth of nails in such cases, I was
enabled to indicate approximately the date of Sir Gilbert's death. The
hair too grew on his head."

"But the barred eyes? I saw them myself!" exclaimed the young man.

"The eyelashes grow also. You follow me?"

"You have, I presume, some theory in connection with this?" observed
Thierry. "It must be a very curious one."

"Sir Gilbert in his fear of death appears to have mastered and
elaborated a strange and ancient formula by which the grosser factors
of the body being eliminated, the more ethereal portions continue to
retain the spirit, and the body is thus preserved from absolute
disintegration. In this manner true death may be indefinitely
deferred. Secure from the ordinary chances and changes of existence,
this spiritualised body could retain a modified life practically for
ever."

"This is a most extraordinary idea, my dear fellow," remarked Thierry.

"But why should Sir Gilbert haunt the Manor House, and one special
room?"

"The tendency of spirits to return to the old haunts of bodily life is
almost universal. We cannot yet explain the reason of this attraction
of environment."

"But the expansion--the crowding substance which we ourselves felt?
You cannot meet that difficulty," said Thierry persistently.

"Not as fully as I could wish, perhaps. But the power of expanding and
contracting to a degree far beyond our comprehension is a well-known
attribute of spiritualised matter."

"Wait one little moment, my dear Monsieur Flaxman," broke in Thierry's
voice after an interval; "this is very clever and ingenious indeed. As
a theory I give it my sincere admiration. But proof--proof is what we
now demand."

Flaxman Low looked steadily at the two incredulous faces.

"This," he said slowly, "is the hair of Sir Gilbert Blackburton, and
this nail is from the little finger of his left hand. You can prove my
assertion by opening the coffin."

Sir George, who was pacing up and down the room impatiently, drew up.

"I don't like it at all, Mr. Low, I tell you frankly. I don't like it
at all. I see no object in violating the coffin. I am not concerned to
verify this unpleasant theory of yours. I have only one desire; I want
to get rid of this haunting presence, whatever it is."

"If I am right," replied Low, "the opening of the coffin and exposure
of the remains to strong sunshine for a short time will free you for
ever from this presence."

In the early morning, when the summer sun struck warmly on the lawns
of Yand, the three men carried the coffin from the vault to a quiet
spot among the shrubs where, secure from observation, they raised the
lid.

Within the coffin lay the semblance of Gilbert Blackburton, maned to
the ears with long and coarse black hair. Matted eyelashes swept the
fallen cheeks, and beside the body stretched the bony hands, each with
its dependent sheaf of switch-like nails. Low bent over and raised the
left hand gingerly.

The little finger was without a nail!

Two hours later they came back and looked again. The sun had in the
meantime done its work; nothing remained but a fleshless skeleton and
a few half-rotten shreds of clothing.

The ghost of Yand Manor House has never since been heard of.

When Thiery bade Flaxman Low good-bye, he said:

"In time, my dear Monsieur Flaxman, you will add another to our
sciences. You establish your facts too well for my peace of mind."
